
Editor

Tofael Ahamed

IoT and AI in Agriculture

Self- sufficiency in Food Production to Achieve
Society 5.0 and SDG’s Globally


Editor

Tofael Ahamed

Faculty of Life & Environmental Sciences, University of Tsukuba,
Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan

ISBN 978-981-19-8112-8    e-ISBN 978-981-19-8113-5

https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-19-8113-5

© The Editor(s) (if applicable) and The Author(s), under exclusive
license to Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd. 2023

This work is subject to copyright. All rights are solely and exclusively
licensed by the Publisher, whether the whole or part of the material is
concerned,                                       specifically the rights of translation, 
reprinting, reuse of

illustrations, recitation, broadcasting, reproduction on microfilms or in
any other physical way, and transmission or information storage and
retrieval, electronic adaptation, computer software, or by similar or
dissimilar methodology now known or hereafter developed.

The use of general descriptive names, registered names, trademarks,
service                                             marks, etc. in this publication does not imply, 
even in the
absence of a specific statement, that such names are exempt from the
relevant protective laws and regulations and therefore free for general
use.

The publisher, the authors, and the editors are safe to assume that the
advice                                                and information in this book are believed to 
be true and accurate
at the date of publication. Neither the publisher nor the authors or the

editors give a warranty, expressed or implied, with respect to the

material contained herein or for any errors or omissions that may have
been                                              made. The publisher remains neutral with regard 
to jurisdictional
claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.


This Springer imprint is published by the registered company Springer
Nature                                           Singapore Pte Ltd.

The registered company address is: 152 Beach Road, #21-01/04
Gateway                                          East, Singapore 189721, Singapore


Foreword

It is my pleasure to have been invited to write this foreword for our
TGSW- and Tsukuba Conference (TC)-related book from Springer
Nature with regard to the session Agriculture × IoT × AI: Self-
Sufficiency in Food Production to Achieve Society 5.0 and SDG’s
Globally. I have been participating as President of the University of

Tsukuba in this special session series for the last 4 years starting from
2018. Each year, I had the opportunity to join this session and seen the
networking of this session from all over world. The invited guests were
from the USA, Europe, Australia, Japan, Malaysia, Indonesia,

Bangladesh, Thailand, Vietnam, China, Taiwan, Sri Lanka, the
Philippines,                                               and continuously growing from other 
countries. I am very
happy that our TGSW/TC conferences and networking grow over time
and have contributed to a book in one frame with our friends and
distinguished guest speakers of this session. As the COVID-19 pandemic
started in 2020, we have the difficult time to meet face to face. On the

other hand, we have become more closer with IoT technologies that
bring even closer. We have overcome the situation with the help of
scientific                                       innovation. Our TGSW theme also changed with the 
New
Normal better and more inclusive to bring our stakeholders together.

This session highlights the new challenges in food production, food
traceability, and food safety globally. These challenges were magnified
by the pandemic and are expected to be solved by science and

technology. This book focuses on digital science and technology
including                                          IoT/ICT and AI that contribute to all phases of 
the food
production system from preharvest to postharvest levels for crops,
fruits, and vegetables. The book contents are divided into several
sections, each of which is supplemented with a strategic short note

from our TGSW/TC invited speakers that provides insightful thoughts
on                                      AI/IoT-based applications covering indoor and outdoor field
practices to increase crop production and to achieve food security. The
challenges clarified that worldwide and integrated efforts are required
for its control, because there are no borders of all current events such


as pandemics, for example, between countries and areas, between
organizations, and between societies.

The novel approaches through AI have the impact in the

intervention of utilizing limited resources to predict climate changes.

The large data analytical platform brings an immense potential to serve
decision support analysis in agriculture for smart applications of
agricultural inputs such as water, seeds, fertilizers, herbicides, and
pesticides as minimum as possible for maximum productivity, which is
known as precision agriculture technology. For example, machinery

companies in Japan started to provide smart assist systems from land
preparation to food production for ensuring the traceability of
agricultural inputs. To achieve the expected feature, interdisciplinary
collaborations not only among life science, environmental science,

medical science, and engineering technologies, but also including social
science and humanity are needed to implement scientific achievements
into society. Digital science and cooperation among different societies
will bring a new decision matrix for sustainable food production.

The sustainability of global food production faces challenges over
the years due to climate change, which causes drought, flash floods,

tidal surges, salinization, and an uneven increase in the number of
populations. Distant differences and population growth rates are
dispersed in developed and developing countries. The labor force
shifting from agriculture to industry threatens agricultural productivity
and the constant supply of food production. Innovation toward modern
agriculture, that is, an AI-based system, creates new opportunities and
solutions to predict climate change hazards and minimize labor

requirements. In this regard, this book solely discusses AI and IoT

systems and their potential outlined in the 23 chapters related to smart
agriculture.

The various smart farm technologies through different agricultural
operations,                                            including agricultural input management, 
plant monitoring,
and farm machinery system, are highlighted with the effective approach
in terms of resource utilization. Water management within irrigation
systems is one of keys for sustainable and smart agriculture. IoT-based
precision soil and irrigation management have become substantial,

considering population growth and rising water shortages. In this


regard, we are giving our best efforts for increasing water use

efficiency, maintaining soil fertility, and boosting agricultural crop
production in both protected and open field cultivation systems.

I am also happy that this book addresses automation in orchards,
which is very challenging due to the complex canopy structure and

fruits production. The book also further discusses the shortcomings of
the present orchard automation approaches in the context of the
shortage of seasonal labor and rising labor cost. The innovations and
implementation of advanced machinery can be stratified based on

regional demand, population engagement in agriculture, and
socioeconomic aspects. The transformation of the present state of
machinery and its automation levels is also described elusively.

Furthermore, the poultry and livestock also require significant

attention to increase production and reduce postprocess losses. This
book also attempts to bring some important application of AI

technologies and its integration in the poultry industry.

To conclude, I felt the application of digital science in agriculture
becomes                                                the leading area integrated with IoT and AI. 
The advancement
of science, technology, and innovation contributes to achieving Society
5.0, and SDGs, and is one of the driving forces of sustainable

development with our partners from all over the world in these

transboundary trends. In this regard, the University of Tsukuba is

celebrating its 150-year anniversary from its inception this year and its
50-year anniversary of relocating to Tsukuba Science City next year. We
are committed to “Design the Future, Together” with partner

universities, research institutes, and industries. Therefore, this book
has                                        outstanding contributions relating to our TGSW and 
Tsukuba

Conference series, will create certainly more signature impacts in smart
agricultural application to increase productivity, and strengthen our
partnerships among the collaborators.

Kyosuke Nagata


Preface

The sustainability of global food production faces challenges over the
years                                                due to climate change, which causes drought, 
flash floods, tidal
surges, salinization, and an uneven increase in the number of
populations. Distant differences and population growth rates are
dispersed in developed and developing countries. The labor force
shifting from agriculture to industry threatens agricultural productivity
and the constant supply of food production. To address these two main
problems of climate change and labor forces in agriculture, innovation
in agriculture and its application are highly needed. Innovation toward
modern agriculture, such as artificial intelligence (AI)-based systems,

creates new opportunities and solutions to predict climate change
hazards                                             and minimize labor requirements. The Internet 
of Things (IoT)
opened a new window with low bandwidth information sharing. In this
regard, this book solely discusses AI and IoT systems and their

potential outlined in the 23 chapters related to smart agriculture.

Agricultural inputs are the main criteria used to increase

production. In this regard, Chap. 1 discusses the introductory notes
related to the various smart farm technologies through different

agricultural operations, including input management, plant monitoring,
and farm machinery, to highlight the effective approach in terms of

resource utilization. In addition, how to minimize postharvest losses
and                                            prevent agricultural losses and farm automation in 
its potential to
establish a digital and big data analytics platform for the innovation of
agriculture and food production systems have also been discussed

throughout this chapter.

Chapter 2 is a strategic short note that highlights the concept of
circular bioeconomy as applied to food and agriculture. In-depth

explanation regarding the new transformation processes for controlled
environment plant production system (CEPPS) is also

presented. Chapter 3 discusses artificial lighting systems for plants
grown                                               in indoor farming, which aims to enlighten 
readers regarding

lighting requirements for plants generally with some examples. Three
main                                          principles of light, light quality, light quantity, 
and light duration,


and their effects on plant growth and development are reviewed in this
chapter. Furthermore, different types and some examples of artificial

lights have also been reviewed in this chapter to provide insights into
the                                              light sources that are commonly used to enhance 
the growth and
yield of plants cultivated in indoor farming. Light intensity and its

control through smart application and IoT-based application layers are
discussed to utilize through the maximum utility of artificial lighting for
indoor plant growth.

Water management within irrigation systems is the key to
sustainable                                             and smart agriculture. In this regard, 
Chap. 4 discusses IoT-
based precision irrigation management that has become substantial,

considering population growth and rising water shortages, in
increasing water use efficiency and boosting agricultural crop
production in both protected and open field cultivation systems.

Initially, extensive reviews were performed to provide insights into
recent                                      developments in IoT-based precision irrigation 
management,

including monitoring and controlling protocols, and finally referred to
some points that must be addressed in future studies. Chapter 5

continues to describe as a short note to focus on IoT and AI in

urban water management to achieve sustainable hybrid water systems
for                                            domestic and agricultural uses.

Chapter 6 discusses the possibility of using IoT for monitoring of
water management systems, especially focusing on solar water
distillation systems from urban to agriculture to meet the water
demands. While reusing, water quality and other parameters must be
monitored regularly, and available sensors have been discussed along
with the possibility of using IoT technology. Further resources are
discussed to improve solar water distillation, which can be compiled
and combined with a few systems that have been experimentally

investigated. The results showed the potential to increase the scale of
water reuse systems and continuous monitoring systems.

Chapter 7 introduces the application of the long-range wide area

network (LoRaWAN) communication protocol in managing soil EC and
pH                                                in oil palm nurseries. This protocol consisted of 
four layers,
including a sensor node, gateway, network server, and application
server. LoRaWAN technology is a robust tool for outlying regions


without cellular network coverage or for establishing private networks
covering                                               long distances with minimum power 
consumption and
maintenance.

Chapter 8 reviews shortly the future of smart machine vision

technology in agriculture, forestry, fisheries and animal husbandry to
develop an automatic solutions to cater the labor shortages and replace
human power. Chapter 9 discusses artificial intelligence (AI) in a

general overview to open the discussion regarding this trending topic
that                                                has been changing our daily lives and society 
as well. This chapter
unleashed the meaning and basic applications of AI, machine learning,
and deep learning step by step in a time series of events, from their

origins until the present. Furthermore, some of the applications of

these new trends are explored for agricultural production to achieve
the                                             goals of sustainability and Society 5.0.

Chapter 10 illustrates the potential of thermal images in navigation
systems by introducing and comparing three deep learning methods. As
RGB cameras are easily affected by light, this study used thermal
images for tree trunk detection. By training Faster R-CNN, YOLO, and
CenterNet                                               with the same dataset, based on the mAP and 
comparison of
the test images between the three methods, the most stable deep

learning method was obtained. The potential of using thermal images
for                                         automatic navigation in low light conditions was also 
demonstrated
in this chapter.

Chapter 11 provides a systematic and pragmatic methodology for
choosing the most suitable model for a desired application in
agricultural sciences. It further discusses in detail a comprehensive
study conducted aiming to produce a robust real-time pear fruit

counter for mobile applications using only RGB data, the variants of the
state-of-the-art object detection model YOLOv4, and the multiple object
tracking algorithm called Deep SORT.

Chapter 12 compares the evaluation of the recognition quality of
different visual recognition techniques with the same dataset. Mask R-

CNN and Faster R-CNN, which are two-stage algorithms, were

compared and observed. Both methods had similar accuracy in the case
of                                            detecting individual pears, but unlike Faster R-CNN, 
Mask-RCNN

generated masks made it more effective in the case of aggregated pears.


Furthermore, the performance of the one-stage algorithm (YOLACT)
and                                               the two-stage algorithm (Mask R-CNN) were also 
compared. The
results showed that YOLACT with 35 fps+ as the one-stage algorithm
had lower accuracy than Mask R-CNN in generating the bounding box
and mask. However, it was significantly better in real-time processing
compared to Mask R-CNN with 5 fps+.

In addition to crops, livestock also require significant attention to
increase production and reduce postprocess losses. Specifically, the
poultry production sector is one of the most challenging sectors of the
agriculture chain, as early embryo detection and sexual segregation at
early stages represent bottlenecks to reach sustainability in this sector.

In this regard, Chapter 13 presents a novel application of thermal micro
cameras associated with deep learning algorithms to identify quail

embryos at early stages during the incubation period, addressing high-
throughput application at automatic and efficient incubator machines.
The novel practice proposed in this chapter may overcome these issues,
especially AI-based systems and sensor technologies. The application of
AI-based system is further discusses briefly in Chap. 14 to explore its
prospects for orchard picking harvester robot specifically for kiwifruit.

Chapter 15 discusses the application levels of mechanization to
support                                               labor shortages and increase productivity in 
developed and
developing countries. The innovations and implementation of advanced
machinery can be stratified based on regional demand, population

engagement in agriculture, and socioeconomic aspects. This chapter
solely                                           describes the current trend in agricultural 
machinery adoption
that can be used to recommend the levels of mechanization for

appropriateness globally. The transformation of the present state of
machinery to advanced levels is classified from Level 0 to Level 5. Each
level is discussed in detail along with the transformation process from
Level 0 to the automation level.

In continuation of automation and advanced development, Chap. 16
designed a human-controlled navigation system consisted of a leader
vehicle and a follower vehicle, in which the follower vehicle follows the
leader vehicle automatically. The system consisted of a monocular
vision sensing system and rectangular markers, used least squares to
reduce noise in data acquisition, and introduced a PID controller to


maintain the tracking performance of the two-vehicle system. Higher
accuracies were obtained for the straight line, turn, Z paths, and parallel
trajectory                                            tracking. The system can be used for grain 
harvesting and

other agricultural developments, and the driver can perform the task
effectively in agricultural operations.

Furthermore, automation in orchards, which is very challenging due
to                                                the complex canopy structure, must be addressed. 
In this regard,

Chap. 17 provides an account of opportunities and challenges in

orchard automation with special reference to pre- and postharvest
management                                           practices. It further discusses the 
shortcomings of the
present orchard automation approaches in the context of the shortage
of seasonal labor and rising labor cost. Finally, both technically and

commercially viable solutions are included in this chapter to overcome
such                                          drawbacks that hinder the development of the orchard 
sector.

Chapter 18 outlines the novel approach on detecting soil moisture
for                                                oil palm cultivation based on PALSAR-2 sensor 
data which

is benefited to prepare for climate-related droughts. Chapter 19 on the
other                                               hand reports a system for the precision 
application of pesticides
using unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) based on machine learning. The
system used the mutual subspace method to classify the cropland and
orchard images into spray and nonspray areas. In the field test, the

classifier accuracies in offline cropland and orchard were observed
with                                            good accuracy. Similarly, in the online 
recognition, the average

cropland accuracy was satisfactory. The average computational time of
the recognition system indicated the possibility of implementing this
method in real time. This recognition system is proven to be fast and
accurate for the real-time recognition of spray and nonspray areas.

Chapter 20 discusses the feasibility of using thermal imaging
techniques to distinguish healthy trees and basal stem rot (BSR)-
infected trees. In particular, WEKA standard machine learning

algorithms (ML) including naıve Bayes (NB), multilayer perceptron

(MLP), and random forest (RF) were used to classify the trees into two
categories: healthy and infected trees, with emphasis on imbalanced or
nonuniform data approaches such as random undersampling (RUS),
random oversampling (ROS), and synthetic minority oversampling

(SMOTE).


Chapter 21 provides an in-depth explanation of the applicability of
hyperspectral data and machine learning in the early detection of plant
diseases, especially basal stem rot (BSR), which is one of the most
destructive diseases caused by fungi in oil palm plantations. The results
indicated that hyperspectral data and machine learning techniques
have great potential with very high accuracy to classify and detect
disease in the early stage.

Chapter 22 highlights the effort in development of an automated
speed                                            sprayer for precise application in orchard apple 
in Japan by
utilizing GNSS, optical markers, image processing and LIDAR. The last
chapter, Chap. 23, discusses the conclusion of this book referring to
automation toward Society 5.0. A discussion is presented based on the
supervised and remote autonomy of AI application in agriculture and
machinery automation. Some of the basic standards, transformation

from Level 0 to Level 5, are focused on how to adopt supervised and

remote autonomy to achieve further AI-based application of machinery.

The book contents are divided into in depths chapters

and supplemented with strategic short notes that provide insightful
thoughts                                              on AI-IoT-based applications covering indoor 
and outdoor
field practices to increase crop production to achieve global food
security.

Tofael Ahamed
Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan


Acknowledgments

It is my great privilege to have the Tsukuba Global Science Week
(TGSW)                                           and Tsukuba Conference (TC) organized yearly at 
the

University of Tsukuba. I was very inspired to organize the session

“Agriculture × AI × IoT for Global Food Production” from TGSW and TC
over                                                the past 5 years. During these years, we had 
opportunities to invite
many experts from different universities globally to share their

experiences and expertise, particularly in integrating agriculture with
transboundary approaches along with AI and IoT-based big data
schemes for food security. The knowledge exchange through all these
conference series has inspired me to extend and share the outputs by
curating this book.

I would like to express my great appreciation to the TGSW/TC
Organizing                                          Committee from the University of Tsukuba for 
contributing
the foreword to this book. It has been a great honor for me to receive
such invaluable and scholarly comments about the book despite their
busy schedule enduring university affairs. I would also like to thank
Professor Kyosuke Nagata, President of the University of Tsukuba, for
creating time to meet and greet us during our session in TGSW/TC.

Furthermore, I extend my sincere gratitude to Professor K.C. Ting,
University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, United States, Dr Martin
Anda, Murdoch University, Australia, Professor Yan-Fu Kuo, National

Taiwan University, Taiwan, Professor Ryozo Noguchi, Kyoto University,
Japan,                                          Professor Longsheng Fu, Northwest A&F University, 
China and
Professor Abdul Rashid Mohamed Shariff, Universiti Putra Malaysia,

Malaysia, for their contribution of strategic short notes to introduce the
concept of each section of the book and interdisciplinary research ideas
to readers. They have supported me each year in the TGSW/TC
meetings as our distinguished speakers, and having them as part of this
book is truly a great compliment.

Along with our lab contribution from the University of Tsukuba and
our                                        collaborators’ contribution globally, the book is 
outlined in 23

chapters. It was such a tremendous effort to bring all the concepts into
one                                               frame with all the support from them. In this 
regard, I would like to


extend my thanks and appreciation to the contributors from Universiti
Putra                                            Malaysia, Dr Siti Khairunniza Bejo, Dr Samsuzana 
Abd Aziz, and
Professor Abdul Rashid Mohamed Shariff for their time spent preparing
and reviewing their chapter at the different stages.

My hearty gratitude and appreciation also go to my PhD and
master’s                                         students for their tireless assistance and 
contributions to the
book’s cross-checking, updating, and figure layout. In this team,

Munirah Hayati Hamidon, R M Rasika D Abeyrathna, Jiang Ailian,
Nakaguchi                                          Victor Massaki, Seyar Mohammad Hussain, Pubudu
Kahandage, Siyu Pan, and Arkar Minn have exceptionally supported me
and dedicatedly worked to develop the contents, layout formatting,

literature collections, and cross-checking of references for this book in
the last few months. The success and outcome of this book were made
possible by considerable effort from each of them involved in this book.
We had long discussions, and I am grateful for their endless support,
help, and patience in working and finally helping to succinctly produce
this book. In addition to my team, I would like to extend my thanks to

Apacionado Bryan Vivas, Sudeshinie Piyathissa, Md. Monirul Islam, Md
Shamsuzzoha, and Alam Kazi Faiz, PhD students from our graduate
school, who also helped in cross-checking several chapters of this book.

I am incredibly privileged and lucky enough to have this outstanding
team, which made me complete the book duly!

I would like to acknowledge the support I have received from the
University of Tsukuba in publishing articles at different times as open
access and our researchers with collaborators, globally which
motivated us to further extend our networks by sharing knowledge.

Finally, I would like to thank Springer Nature for collaborating with
me by refereeing our session in TGSW/TC organized at the University
of Tsukuba and extending our session outcomes as an accomplished
book.

Editor

Tofael Ahamed


Contents

1 IoT × AI: Introducing Agricultural Innovation for Global Food
Production

Munirah Hayati Hamidon, Mohammad Hussain Seyar,

P. D. Kahandage, Victor Massaki Nakaguchi, Arkar Minn, Ailian Jiang,

R. M. Rasika D. Abeyrathna and Tofael Ahamed

2 Strategic Short Note: Transforming Controlled Environment
Plant                                      Production Toward Circular Bioeconomy Systems

K. C. Ting

3 Artificial Lighting Systems for Plant Growth and Development in
Indoor Farming

Munirah Hayati Hamidon and Tofael Ahamed

4 An IoT-Based Precision Irrigation System to Optimize Plant
Water Requirements for Indoor and Outdoor Farming Systems

Mohammad Hussain Seyar, P. D. Kahandage and Tofael Ahamed

5 Strategic Short Note: Artificial Intelligence and Internet of
Things: Application in Urban Water Management

Martin Anda, Roberta Fornarell and Stewart Dallas

6 Purification of Agricultural Polluted Water Using Solar
Distillation                                            and Hot Water Producing with Continuous 
Monitoring
Based on IoT

P. D. Kahandage, Mohammad Hussain Seyar, Ryozo Noguchi and
Tofael Ahamed

7 Long Range Wide Area Network (LoRaWAN) for Oil Palm Soil
Monitoring

Yee Nie Goh, Diyana Jamaludin, Hazreen Haizi Harith,
Alfadhl Yahya Alkhaled, Nurul Adilah Abdul Latiff and
Samsuzana Abd Aziz

8 Strategic Short Note: Application of Smart Machine Vision in
Agriculture, Forestry, Fishery, and Animal Husbandry

Kai-Rong Chang, Tsung-Hsiang Ma and Yan-Fu Kuo


9 Artificial Intelligence in Agriculture: Commitment to Establish
Society                                              5.0: An Analytical Concepts Mapping for Deep 
Learning
Application

Victor Massaki Nakaguchi and Tofael Ahamed

10 Potentials of Deep Learning Frameworks for Tree Trunk
Detection                                              in Orchard to Enable Autonomous Navigation 
System

Ailian Jiang, Ryozo Noguchi and Tofael Ahamed

11 Real-Time Pear Fruit Detection and Counting Using YOLOv4
Models                                             and Deep SORT

Addie Ira Borja Parico and Tofael Ahamed

12 Pear Recognition System in an Orchard from 3D Stereo Camera
Datasets                                              Using Deep Learning Algorithms

Siyu Pan and Tofael Ahamed

13 Thermal Imaging and Deep Learning Object Detection
Algorithms                                         for Early Embryo Detection: A Methodology
Development Addressed to Quail Precision Hatching

Victor Massaki Nakaguchi and Tofael Ahamed

14 Strategic Short Note: Intelligent Sensing and Robotic Picking of
Kiwifruit in Orchard

Longsheng Fu

15 Low-Cost Automatic Machinery Development to Increase

Timeliness and Efficiency of Operation for Small-Scale Farmers to
Achieve SDGs

Arkar Minn and Tofael Ahamed

16 Vision-Based Leader Vehicle Trajectory Tracking for Multiple
Agricultural Vehicles

Linhuan Zhang, Tofael Ahamed, Yan Zhang, Pengbo Gao and
Tomohiro Takigawa

17 Autonomous Robots in Orchard Management: Present Status
and Future Trends

R. M. Rasika D. Abeyrathna and Tofael Ahamed


18 Strategic Short Note: Comparing Soil Moisture Retrieval from
Water Cloud Model and Neural Network Using PALSAR-2 for Oil
Palm Estates

Veena Shashikant, Abdul Rashid Mohamed Shariff,

Aimrun Wayayok, Md Rowshon Kamal, Yang Ping Lee and
Wataru Takeuchi

19 Development of a Recognition System for Spraying Areas from
Unmanned Aerial Vehicles Using a Machine Learning Approach

Pengbo Gao, Yan Zhang, Linhuan Zhang, Ryozo Noguchi and
Tofael Ahamed

20 Basal Stem Rot Disease Classification by Machine Learning
Using                                        Thermal Images and an Imbalanced Data Approach

Izrahayu Che Hashim, Abdul Rashid Mohamed Shariff,
Siti                              Khairunniza Bejo, Farrah Melissa Muharam and
Khairulmazmi Ahmad

21 Early Detection of Plant Disease Infection Using Hyperspectral
Data                                               and Machine Learning

Aiman Nabilah Noor Azmi, Siti Khairunniza-Bejo, Mahirah Jahari
and                                            Ian Yule

22 Strategic Short Note: Development of an Automated Speed
Sprayer                                            for Apple Orchards in Japan

Ryozo Noguchi

23 The Spectrum of Autonomous Machinery Development to

Increase Agricultural Productivity for Achieving Society 5.0 in
Japan

Tofael Ahamed


© The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd. 2023

T. Ahamed (ed.), IoT and AI in Agriculture

https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-19-8113-5_1

1. IoT × AI: Introducing Agricultural

Innovation for Global Food Production

Munirah Hayati Hamidon¹, Mohammad Hussain Seyar¹, ²,

P. D. Kahandage¹, ³, Victor Massaki Nakaguchi¹, Arkar Minn¹, ⁴,
Ailian Jiang¹, R. M. Rasika D. Abeyrathna¹, ⁵ and Tofael Ahamed⁶

(1) Graduate School of Science and Technology, University of Tsukuba,

Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan

(2) Department of Soil Science and Irrigation, Kabul University, Kabul,

Afghanistan

(3)  Department of Agricultural Engineering and Soil Science, Faculty
of                                      Agriculture, Rajarata University of Sri Lanka, Mihintale, 
Sri
Lanka

(4)  Department of Agricultural Engineering, Yezin Agricultural
University,                                       Nay Pyi Taw, Myanmar

(5) Department of Agricultural Engineering, Faculty of Agriculture,

University of Peradeniya, Peradeniya, Sri Lanka

(6) Faculty of Life & Environmental Sciences, University of Tsukuba,
Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan

Tofael Ahamed

Email: tofael.ahamed.gp@u.tsukuba.ac.jp

Abstract

In many regions of the world, key inputs for food production, such as

land, healthy soils, and water are becoming increasingly scarce, making
it                                              crucial to utilize and manage them sustainably. The 
advancement of
various technologies in the agricultural sector allows stable and
sustainable agricultural and food production. Innovation of artificial


lighting and environmental control for indoor farming uses far less land
but                                              allows the intensification of food production. The 
Internet of Things
(IoTs) technology serves as an alternative to better manage the main
agricultural resources and water through smart irrigation. Additionally,
the use of artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning (ML)
provides a new opportunity to improve the overall agriculture

operations and production by involving real-time analysis and
machinery                                         automation. Therefore, the main purpose of this 
chapter is
to highlight the future trend of agricultural innovation for realizing
sustainable global food production.

Keywords Sustainable agriculture – Indoor farming – Artificial lighting

– Internet of things (IoTs) – Smart irrigation – Artificial intelligence (AI)

– Machine learning (ML)

1.1 Introduction

Over time, technology has evolved farming systems and has had a wide
range of effects on the agriculture industry. In many countries around
the world, agriculture is the main source of income. According to the

United Nations projections, the rising population from 7 to 9 billion in
2050 will put more pressure on resources such as land and water to
produce more food to feed the increasing population. Moreover,
shortages in farm labor continue to be an issue due to the relatively low
income in the agricultural sector and the fact that the majority of
people have relocated to urban areas for better job expectations and
more global competition.

Hence, in 2015, the Sustainable development goals (SDGs) were
structured by the United Nations General Assembly (UN-GA) as a
“blueprint   to achieve a better and more sustainable future for all” and
are intended to be accomplished by 2030. Among the 17 SDGs, SDG2
states                                               that “end hunger, achieve food security and 
improve nutrition
and promote sustainable agriculture” is a goal that needs to be achieved
by agriculture and food systems, including both production and

consumption, to eradicate hunger within the next generation (United
Nations, 2017).


However, reliance on the conventional agriculture system will not
be                                              able to address these challenges. Urgent action is 
needed to revolve
agriculture and food production systems in a smarter way to become
more productive and less wasteful. In recent years, emerging cutting-
edge technologies such as controlled environment agriculture (CEA),

the Internet of Things (IoT), machine learning (ML), artificial

intelligence (AI), deep learning (DL), unmanned aerial vehicles (UAV),
and global positioning systems (GPS) have attracted much interest from
both farmers and researchers to fulfill the rising demand for
agricultural products and food. The adoption of these advanced

technologies for remote and unmanned monitoring in agriculture fields,
also by implementing solutions to create the most conducive

environment for crop growth, has been proven to improve input
management, reduce yield losses, and support growers and interveners
in decision-making.

The combination of hardware and software technologies has

optimized agricultural operations to improve production. Currently,

there are many portable, low-cost, and power-efficient hardware and
sensors                                              with wireless connections that are widely 
implemented across
both indoor and outdoor agriculture. The utilization of hardware and
sensor networks to continuously monitor agricultural growth
parameters such as temperature, relative humidity, and soil moisture
provides farmers with essential information to allow better input
management and plant monitoring and enhance quality and crop yield.
Additionally, sophisticated hardware such as graphical processing units
(GPUs) can process an enormous volume of data collected by these
modules, as prompted by AI framework-based software.

The current rise in AI and big data technologies support software
systems, allowing the management of massive quantities of data

collection by hardware modules. The use of these data as input to
cutting-edge, AI-based analyzers may provide better-informed
judgments and insights to farmers or decision-makers. Such

automation and intelligent control of agricultural operations offer
farmers                                               the opportunity to efficiently manage their 
resources, such as
irrigation water, fertilizer, pesticides, and herbicides, in the right place,
time, and amount. Furthermore, advancements in AI and machine


vision techniques to detect and classify objects have sparked interest in
deployment in agriculture fields. Using this AI-machine vision

approach, plant disease can be detected early and accurately replace
manual                                          assessment, which is time- and labor-consuming, 
especially for
larger farms. AI technology, including deep learning, can also be utilized
for the automation of farm machinery and orchard operations, such as
navigation systems, transplanting, spraying, and harvesting, to combat
agricultural labor shortages.

In this context, this chapter discusses the various smart farm

technologies through different agriculture operations, including input
management, plant monitoring, and farm machinery to highlight the
effective approach in terms of resource usage, preventing agricultural
losses and farm automation in its potential to establish a platform of
big data analytics for agricultural innovation and food production
systems (Fig. 1.1).


Fig. 1.1 Advanced agricultural innovation for global food production


1.2 Key Factors for Plant Growth and Agricultural
Production

Plant growth is greatly affected by the growing environment. The
primary factors driving plant growth include light, water, nutrients,
humidity, and temperature. These factors determine plant development
and their growth hormones, which indicate that they grow either
slowly or rapidly. Providing an ideal growing environment by properly
controlling                                           all these elements will make the plants 
thrive.

Environmental stresses, in contrast, will affect normal plant
development, resulting in stunted or slow growth. Plants may
potentially die under excessive stress circumstances.

Plants need energy from light to complete the process of
photosynthesis, which allows them to manufacture their food by

converting water and carbon dioxide into carbohydrates and oxygen.
The                                             pace of this process is strongly reliant on the 
amount of light
available. As our population grows and puts pressure on agricultural
production, significant reforms in sustainable agriculture are needed.

Sustainable agriculture can ensure a sufficient supply of safe and

affordable food. Utilizing artificial lights in indoor farms with less use of
water and land than traditional agriculture practices may play an
important role as a sustainable alternative to our future food system.

On the other hand, clean water is also a crucial resource for
agriculture                                             and is an asset in producing food. Land 
degradation and
significant population growth have had a tremendous impact on
agriculture’s water resources. The implementation of intelligent
irrigation techniques employing automated and Internet of Things
(IoT) technology can be one of the alternatives to overcome water
issues in agricultural fields.

1.2.1 Source of Light for Indoor Farming Systems

The potential of indoor farming as one of the sustainable food

production systems is promising when considering more needs to
produce to meet the food demand of the growing population. Crops

cultivated in controlled environments are anticipated to become much


trendier, especially in urban areas, concurrent with the emergence of
agriculture technologies to cater the issues related to plant-based diets,
food safety, and labor shortages. Climate changes and frequent weather
extremes, such as droughts, floods, storms, and severe freezes, have
significantly impacted the conventional farms that produce fresh fruits
and vegetables. Hence, indoor farming’s controlled environment

approach permits year-round food production in any climate, allowing
farmers to prioritize food quality and safety.

Sustainability is a major reason for the effort to produce more food
in                                             indoor farming operations. Practicing indoor farming 
under proper
conditions can reduce the environmental impact of growing more food
with less land resource degradation. Additionally, consumers currently
prefer to consume food that is produced more sustainably. Consumers
are increasingly appreciating the benefits of receiving food as soon as it
is harvested. Moreover, they also want pesticide-free products, as

pesticides can be harmful to long-term human health. Thus, the trend in
consumers’ preferences for consuming more fresh plant-based foods
and foods prepared in a more environmentally friendly manner is

growing.

Labor shortages have always been one of the greatest challenges in
the agriculture sector, with problems of an aging agricultural labor

force and a lack of a new young workforce. However, indoor farms have
various automated controls and duties and are less impacted by labor
market volatility and stressors. In addition, the global COVID-19
pandemic has also accelerated the growth of indoor farming. When
some merchants faced supply chain challenges and could not obtain

fresh items, they resorted to new partners and vendors who operated
indoor farms with more controlled conditions and inventory. Indoor
farms are typically faster to construct and have more adaptable

operations that allow for transitions in the case of unforeseen
circumstances.

Several key factors, such as obtaining the right climate, lighting, and
spacing, need to be considered when starting an indoor farm. Among

those factors, lighting is one of the crucial factors that can determine
the                                           success or failure of indoor farming. After all, the 
reliance on

artificial lighting distinguishes an indoor farm from other plant growing


methods. The most important light principles influencing plant growth
are                                               light intensity, photoperiod, spectrum, and 
uniformity. Each plant
needs specific light requirements based on its principles, as the yield
for indoor farming is highly dependent on the light. Light quantity

refers to the concentration or intensity of the light source. Light quality
describes the color or wavelength that reaches the plants. The length of
time a plant must be exposed to a light source is referred to as the light
duration or photoperiod. Choosing an appropriate light spectrum is
difficult in regard to lighting systems for indoor farming, as under the
incorrect spectrum, plants will not thrive. Additionally, this spectrum
and wavelength vary depending on the plant development stage. For
instance, a blue spectrum is ideal during the vegetative stage, while
during the flowering stage, adding a red spectrum enhances the
blooming process (Fig. 1.2).

Fig. 1.2 Plants grow under different spectra of light

In addition to understanding light principles, it is also important to
understand light parameters for determining the most suitable light for
plant growth and development. The parameters provided in Table 1.1
were created to better regulate and measure light exposure and

perceived plant growth in a controlled indoor farming environment.

The parameters were developed from the perspective of how light is
absorbed and utilized by plants. Hence, combining both light principles
and parameters helps to qualify the proper artificial lighting system for
plant growth in indoor farming (Fig. 1.3).


Table 1.1 List of important parameters to understand artificial light use in
indoor farms

Parameters           Definition


Photosynthetically Active
Radiation (PAR)

Photosynthetic Photo Flux
(PPF)

Photosynthetic Photo Flux
Density (PPFD)

Daily Light Integral (DLI)

Wavelengths of light ranging from 400 to 700 nm. This is the light
spectrum portion used by the plants for photosynthesis.

The number of photons emitted by a light source.

The quantity of PAR delivered to the plant (measured as PPF).

Number of photosynthetically active photons that accumulate on
a surface over a 24-h period.

Fig. 1.3 Important parameters related to artificial lighting for indoor farming

1.2.2 IoT-Based Precision Irrigation Systems

Agricultural production is facing numerous challenges, including
staggering                                         population growth, decreasing land due to rural 
buildings
and growing water scarcity exacerbated by practicing traditional


irrigation systems, which are usually associated with the waste of water
and resources. With all the aforementioned global problems, water
shortages                                               are more critical, especially in arid and 
semiarid regions.

Thus, seeking approaches to boost water use efficiency within
agricultural systems is the key to saving water and feeding the global
population.                                              In other words, agriculture in these areas 
is not possible
without irrigation because of limited and erratic rainfall that makes
them unavailable for plant consumption. Moreover, agriculture alone

constitutes over 70% of global freshwater, which makes it the largest
water                                           consumer. Therefore, employing methods to help use 
limited
water efficiently while maintaining a sustainable production level is the
key to feeding the global population over the coming years.

In recent decades, various studies have been carried out to find
approaches                                                that can contribute to water use 
efficiency in agriculture or
farming systems. There have been a couple of methods suggested by

researchers worldwide to deal with water scarcity while increasing

production levels. Employing deficit irrigation, which refers to applying
water                                              lower than the plant water requirement is an 
effective strategy to
increase water use efficiency (Ali et al., 2007; Bekele & Tilahun, 2007;

Chai et al., 2016; Comas et al., 2019). However, this approach can be
further improved through IoT-based technology applications for
monitoring and controlling watering or irrigation (Fig. 1.4).


Fig. 1.4 The concept of precision agriculture based on IoT

Practicing precision irrigation systems is another effective approach
to water saving and enhancing production, but if these systems are

integrated with IoT devices, including sensors, better results can be
achieved                                              since farmers can have real-time feedback on 
their fields and
provide the plants with an optimum amount and on time water
application. If the farmer is not in the field, he or she can still monitor
and perform irrigation, which makes these systems robust and helpful.
Several IoT technologies are employed in agriculture, and the major
and widespread types are the long-range wide area networks

(LoRaWANs), narrowband Internet of Things (NB-IoT), and Wi-Fi


networks, where any of them can be employed under specific
conditions. For example, for short distances, using Wi-Fi is

recommended, while for long distances, using NB-IoT and LoRaWAN
technologies                                                are preferred. These systems usually 
run based on sensor

data that are deployed in greenhouses or open fields. Data are retrieved
by                                                the sensors and uploaded to the cloud server, 
where the users can
access the data remotely and control the irrigation or watering

operations over a long-distance range.

1.2.3 IoT-Based Water Purification

The Internet of Things (IoT) has become a very beneficial application in
a vast range of areas, including home management, traffic management,
autonomous vehicles, environmental monitoring, industrial,
agricultural, and commercial administration. The application of the IoT
in water management is also admirable and brings many rewards by
increasing operational efficiency. Potable water is one of the basic

needs of human beings for their survival and good health. Clean water
is                                               one of the major inputs for agriculture as well. 
Guaranteeing the
availability and sustainable management of water is identified as one of
the Sustainable development goals (SDGs) by the United Nations

(United Nations, 2020). Even though 1.4 billion km³ of water is
available on Earth, only 2.5% of it is considered fresh, while

approximately the remaining 97.5% is sea water (Modi & Modi, 2019).
As                                              many of the freshwater sources on Earth are 
inaccessible to humans
or are polluted, only 0.4% of freshwater is usable and drinkable for

7.8 billion people worldwide, so most developing countries do not have
enough resources to provide safe potable water to people (Misachi,

2018). Agriculture also acts as a source of water pollution, as heavy
metal                                             ions, including As, Cd, Cu, and Zn, from chemical 
fertilizers and
other agrochemicals accumulate in surface water bodies and

groundwater. Chronic kidney disease (CKD) is a common severe health
issue                                                in the North Central Province of Sri Lanka, 
and high levels of As
and Cd in the water have been suspected as root causes of CKD

(Jayasekara, 2017).


Therefore, water purification and management are crucial for
achieving                                                 a sustainable environment for all living 
beings. Although the
large-scale municipal water purification process consists of several
steps, there are some simple purification methods possible at the
domestic level. Boiling, chlorination, filtration, coagulation and
sedimentation, ion exchange, solar treatments, distillation, and

combined treatment systems are some of the small-scale purification
methods                                               in use at the domestic level (Agrawal & 
Bhalwar, 2009). The
most important thing expected from a water purification system is
maintaining water quality within the purest range. Therefore,

continuous water quality monitoring is essential for confirming that the
system is working properly. IoT technology facilitates this requirement
with different water quality sensors, such as pH sensors, temperature
sensors, turbidity sensors, dissolved oxygen sensors, conductivity
sensors, salinity sensors, and total dissolved solids (TDS) sensors

(Singh & Ahmed, 2020). In addition to determining water quality,

determining water level and water flow can be achieved with ultrasonic
sensors                                                and flow sensors. The Arduino 
microcontroller board or
Raspberry Pi minicomputer boards can be selected based on the

program requirements, and the method of communication can be
selected                                              based on the required operational distance. 
The system can be
controlled using a smartphone application.

Solar water distillation is an economical and feasible method of
purifying polluted water in many developing countries with sufficient
solar power throughout the year. The flat plate collector of an active

type solar water distillation system is a major component of a solar
heating system as well. Therefore, switching the operation between
water distillation and water heating can be achieved with some
structural changes to the system. Therefore, the concept of designing
and fabricating a solar system that can be used for two purposes, water
distillation                                                and hot water, and controlled by IoT 
technology with real-

time data monitoring was introduced. The solar still of the system also
acts                                                 as a storage tank by remotely insulating the 
glass top using IoT
when the system must switch to a hot water system. Sensors are used
to determine the water and air temperatures of the solar still, pH, and
TDS of water and distilled output. Several innovative strategies, such as


connecting a flat plate collector, placing sponge cubes in the still and
placing a sand layer under the still, were selected to improve the
evaporation capacity. Figure 1.5 shows the strategies used to improve
the solar still.

Fig. 1.5 Combination of strategies to improve solar still functionality

The flat plate solar collector absorbs solar heat and transfers it to
the water circulating through it by increasing the water temperature

inside the solar still. Sponge cubes are placed in the solar still such that
half                                                 of a cube is submerged, and the other half is 
above the water level.
Then, sponge cubes absorb water and improve evaporation by reducing
the water surface tension. The sand layer below the solar still can store
sensible heat during the daytime and release nocturnal time. As solar
panels provide photovoltaic power to operate the components that
utilize electricity, the whole system is driven by renewable power.

Figure 1.6 shows the constructed solar still with a flat plate collector.


Fig. 1.6 Constructed solar still

1.3 Artificial Intelligence for Smart Agriculture

Agriculture in the twenty-first century is no longer a human activity

that everyone can perform with low or almost no skills as it used to be.
Every day, more automated processes involving complex machinery
and powerful computers are necessary inside all sectors of the

productive chain. Innovation, which has always been present
throughout                                   agricultural history, despite being associated with


technicians and mechanics, has shown enhancements along with the
prefarming, infarming, and postfarming sectors. New advancements
have been proposed for chemometrics, materials engineering,

nanotechnology, low-cost microprocessors, bioinformatics, software,
and                                         machinery.

During the industrial revolution, agriculture was issued to supply
the                                           demand for raw materials and energy, thus working on 
the
backstage of technological progress. Industry 4.0, however, has placed
agriculture into the digital era, where IoT technology, big data, fast-

network connections, and business intelligence are responsible for

controlling and performing improvements in production, logistics, and
markets across the globe. Mechanization and automation, especially
robotics, can deliver solutions to optimize the workforce in addition to
supplying labor demand of operations/quality at the field level.

Global issues related to overpopulation, global warming,

environmental pollution, water contamination, and desertification are
the                                              main pressure forces that have been pushing 
farmers, companies,
and all industries to sustainable systems in agrifood industries. In this

sense, artificial intelligence (AI) was set as one of the main technologies
able to support decision-making toward big data and multicriteria
analysis.                                               Thus, it has been elected the fundamental 
stone to settle down
Society 5.0 (CSTI, 2016).

In the field of computer sciences, AI is a hot topic that has recently
attracted                                           attention worldwide. Although it was introduced 
many
decades ago, its enormous potential has recently been identified,
associated with big data, efficient algorithms, and parallel processing
using graphic processing units (GPUs). Machine learning (ML), which
uses mathematical and statistical approaches to solve problems

involving big data analysis, is the main tool in AI. ML uses predictive
methods                                             based on classification and regression 
techniques, and
another technique is descriptive methods using association, grouping,
outlier detection, standard sequences, and summarization methods.

Deep learning (DL) can be classified under ML; this subject focuses on
neural networks (NNs) to solve complex problems involving nonlinear
and multidimensional data (Fig. 1.7), but it also uses ML algorithms

embedded in some processes. Currently, DL is considered the state of


the art of AI, where most of the applications have been developed thus
far.

Fig. 1.7  Terminology chart to conceptualize the main terms regarding
computer sciences, AI, machine learning, and deep learning

DL-based algorithms are providing new solutions for computer
vision                                            (CV) systems and are thus responsible for 
breakthrough
solutions regarding complex problems involving real-time analysis and
automation of machinery. Supported by heuristic algorithms for image
recognition and classification, these systems are directly involved with
recent approaches for phenomics and self-decision-making systems.

Advancements in NN algorithms can deliver faster and more accurate
models                                               able to mimic humans’ capacity to solve 
problems faster and in
real time. Moreover, when associated with sensors such as optical and
radiometric cameras (multispectral sensors), CV systems represent the
state of the art for navigation of autonomous driving vehicles and

robotic arms.

NNs are the workhorse for DL models. Generally, we divide NNs into
three groups: recurrent neural networks (RNNs), convolutional neural
networks (CNNs), and generative adversarial networks (GANs). Among
these groups, countless types of architectures can deliver models that
vary in terms of accuracy, speed, and portability. However, most efforts
have been applied to CNNs, which have proven to be the best technique


for image processing tasks. CNNs are NNs that can extract features from
images and generalize classes of images by using a nonlinearity

approach and extensive training datasets. By using CNNs, robust
algorithms                                              are frequently released, improving the 
speed of training,
deployment and accuracy of classification and detections. Figure 1.8
shows an example of a DL model that uses a CNN on the backbone of
the object detector algorithm.

Fig. 1.8  Computer vision system based on deep learning object detection
algorithm

For agrifood industries, image recognition and classification can
support                                               the automation of thousands of operations, 
especially those
regarding fast sorting, tracking, and grading of products; moreover, it
can help in the identification of disease symptoms in early stages and
improve the quality and safety of operations. It can also improve the
welfare conditions of livestock and supply labor shortages in the fields
with onboard machinery and management systems.

Artificial intelligence in agriculture is a recent topic that has already
extended content associated with IoT technologies and big data, and a
global commitment to achieve Society 5.0 is becoming reality. For the

next few years, we will see fantastic applications for the automation of


farms by incorporating AI-based management systems and they will be
responsible for ensuring the sustainability of all operations.

1.4 Agricultural Machinery Automation

Currently, automated agricultural machinery is being developed
because                                           of climate change, labor shortages, increased 
food demands,

etc. Each country changes its farm machinery operations with the aid of
automation according to its available resources and technologies. The

operations of agricultural machinery can be distinguished according to
their operations. They are land preparation operations, planting,
sowing and fertilizer application operations, weeding and intercultural
operations, crop protection operations, and harvesting and threshing

operations.

1.4.1 Farm Automation Technology

The main purpose of farm automation technology is to cover ordinary
tasks                                              more easily. Currently, the agriculture sector 
widely uses sensors.

Sensors come with less weight and size, low cost, and high

performance. Moreover, the combination technology of sensor data
fusion was significantly developed so that farm automation is more
precise and easier to perform in farming operations (Fig. 1.9).

Fig. 1.9 Flowchart of farm automation


The following technologies are commonly utilized in farm
machinery operations.

An autosteering guidance system transforms an ordinary tractor’s
steering                                              into semi or partially automated steering. 
Autosteering
devices are available in the markets so that farmers can choose
suitable autosteering systems.

The navigation system achieves not only vehicle location but also
path planning. A real-time tracking system has been developed in
agriculture by using RTK-GNSS with centimeter accuracy.

Furthermore, a new hybrid navigation system was launched that
combines an inertial measurement unit (IMU) and GNSS so that
vehicles can easily obtain precise locations and headings. Farmers

can install navigation systems in high-precision and low-cost devices
on                                             their vehicles.

Sensing and recognition not only perform real-time sensing but
also create driverless cab conditions. RGB cameras, 3D depth

cameras, and LiDAR are widely used in this system. Variable-rate
technology                                           (VRT) is the most expected one to reduce 
agricultural
inputs such as chemical fertilizers, pesticides, herbicides, irrigation
water, and precision seed placement.

The implementation of a communication system enhances the

combination of control on all attached implements. The operator can
control all implements and equipment with a single control device.

The ISOBUS system is widely used among the manufacturers of farm
machinery.

The power transmission system provides easy access to power
distribution on the whole vehicles and implements system. John
Deere Co. established new technology in power transmission
systems. This system changed conventional continously variable

transmissions (CVTs) to electromechanical power splits. An electric
device                                               is used as the main power transmission source.

Electrification can substitute for the prime power source: the

engine. Electrification uses a battery as the power source. Batteries
use                                         electrical drives, such as electric motors, which have 
heavy

torque at low speeds, are more powerful, more reliable, lightweight,


compact, and have lower noise. Currently, electric drive vehicles are
available in farm machinery markets.

Artificial intelligence (AI) is the technology that recognizes the
difference between the desired work and environment so that
individual tasks can be operated. Currently, this technology is used
not only in farm machinery operations but also in postharvest and
process engineering operations.

1.4.2 Agricultural Robot Navigation System

In agricultural applications, a large quantity of labors is required for
planting, fertilizing, and spraying pesticides, as well as harvesting and
transportation. With the aging of labor and labor migration, the labor
shortage in agriculture is becoming increasingly serious, and the

automation of agricultural production and management has become an
inevitable trend for future development.

The ability of robots to move through the agricultural environment
is                                               a fundamental requirement to accomplish production 
tasks in all
phases of production management. Navigation in agricultural

environments remains difficult due to weather and light variations and
differences in terrain and vegetation, which require the design of an

efficient and stable sensing control system to solve. Stable operation in
agricultural environments requires robots with environmental sensing,
path planning, and obstacle avoidance capabilities and can operate on
optimal routes in complex agricultural environments while ensuring

that the robots do not crash with objects. They generally combine
sensing,                                     communication, detection, and control technologies, 
such as
tractors and human-follower smart boxes (Fig. 1.10), which need to
detect their surroundings while operating to plan their paths and
perform specific functions. These robots can improve operational

efficiency and reduce the use of manual labor. Before a robot can

complete a task, it needs to select the appropriate sensors and control
algorithms based on the robot’s operating environment and task

requirements. Figure 1.11 shows the sensors, algorithms, and control
strategies                                           commonly used in agricultural robot navigation 
(Shalal et al.,
2013).


Fig. 1.10 Different agricultural navigation systems


Fig. 1.11 Agricultural robot navigation system elements

The agricultural environment is composed of various factors,
including crops, trees, weeds, soil, and man-made landmarks. This

complex environment makes it difficult for robots to operate, such as
large land areas, which can lead to poor signal and interruption

problems. Problems such as unevenness of the ground, rain, and
sunlight                                               can also affect the data obtained by the 
robot’s sensors. The
color and state of plants in different growth stages can also have an
impact on the identification of target objects. However, there is also a
certain simplicity in the agricultural environment. For example, crops

of the same type are planted together, and for target detection, it is not
necessary to prepare a large number of detection species. When
planted, crops are generally arranged in straight lines at almost the

same intervals, and with the development of automation, the crops tend
to                                                 be planted in a way that makes the machinery 
easy to manage and

crops easy to harvest. Man-made landmarks in the environment can
also                                               be used as a position reference when navigating 
and guiding the
robot’s operation.

Autonomous navigation is an important issue in robotics
applications, where the purpose is to safely guide the robot in different
environments.                                           The navigation capability of the robot 
depends on the
sensor system feedback and the control algorithm calculations. The

robot first detects its surroundings, then analyzes the surrounding

objects, and when it is moving, needs to consider following crops and

landmarks and avoiding obstacles. In response, many researchers have
proposed                                               many different navigation methods, which can 
be divided into
two groups. In one group, the robot runs according to a map or creates
a map as it explores. If the environment map is perfect, the robot can

easily determine its position and orientation at each time point.
Localization                                              and map learning are interdependent 
because accurate
localization is necessary to build a good map, and having an accurate
map is essential for good localization. Simultaneous localization and

mapping (SLAM) technology was used to create a map in an unknown
environment and use this map to locate the current position of the

robot. Based on the current position and the map, the robot can find the
optimal path from the current position to the target spot without


hitting an object. The other group is path planning based on objects
detected                                               in real time. Since most of the crops are 
grown in straight

lines, an algorithm can be developed to plan the detected crops as
straight lines and obtain the planned path so that the robot runs
accurately along the straight line. However, during the detection

process, multiple uncertain factors need to be considered, such as the
crop                                               only on one side of the boundary, the 
possibility of missing crops
during the operation, and the irregular shape and size of the crop. In
addition, the weeds add noise to the path calculation, which can affect
the planned path and the machine operation process.

A good autonomous navigation system requires the selection of
appropriate sensors, algorithms, and control strategies depending on
the environment and the task to make them work and interoperate
with others to obtain the highest efficiency. As robotic automation is

increasingly needed, more research needs to be realized to improve the
technology and overcome the limitations of autonomous agricultural
robots.

1.4.3 Automation in Orchard Management

The quality and quantity of high-value crops such as orchard fruits
depend                                                on the effective and efficient management of 
the orchard farm.
Thus, conducting orchard operations in such a way that the resulting
optimum outcome is of greater importance. However, the shortage of

seasonal labor along with the rising labor cost has made achieving this
task difficult. Since skilled labor is one of the key components of the
production system, finding ways and means for overcoming this
situation is at the forefront of the debate in the recent past. In this

context, modern machinery has acquired a crucial role in orchard fruit
production, and different orchard management robots have been
introduced to simplify different tasks. Pruning, thinning, spraying

chemicals and fertilizers, harvesting, and transportation are key areas
in                                               that automation takes place to address the labor 
shortage and aims
for decent quality orchard outputs.

During the initial stages of orchard automation, robotic platforms
were                                     semiautomated structures that were not overly complex but 
could
be adapted to conventional fruit orchards. The developments of high-


tech sensors and actuators integrated with high-performing computers
have                                              paved the way for the development of complex 
robots that run
based on machine learning and trained neural networks.

Therefore, identifying the potential of operating robotic arms as an
attachment to existing tractors or simple robotic vehicles with the help
of developed orchard architecture is important for the development of
commercially and financially viable orchard automation options. As
illustrated in Fig. 1.12, conventional orchard structure (Fig. 1.12a), the
higher-degree robotic arm should avoid collisions and should penetrate
inside the canopy to reach the target location, Fig. 1.12b shows easily
harvesting an orange without collisions with the branches and other

fruits. The challenge is maintaining a healthy canopy architecture,
which                                             can deal with various robotic platforms and 
machinery. As
indicated in Fig. 1.13a, b, an autonomous tractor/autonomous crawler
tractor can be used to attach robotic arms to take them near the

orchard canopy. In regard to cost, maintenance, and safety, robots with
lower degrees of freedom can be easily handled by farmers.

Fig. 1.12  (a) Orange harvesting under complex canopy structure (b) Under
improved canopy structure


Fig. 1.13  (a) Autonomous 4-wheel tractor (b) Compact autonomous tractor

1.5 Conclusion

Agriculture worldwide is facing the same issues in terms of land
degradation,                                             climate change and a decrease in the 
number of skilled
farm workers. It is very important to manage our agriculture resources
wisely and intelligently to boost productivity and ensure safe and
sustainable food production for present and future generations. As a
method of addressing these issues, various advanced technologies, such
as lighting systems for indoor farming, IoT, sensors, location systems,
robots, and AI, have been developed to improve the agricultural system
by establishing an integrated smart agricultural system that covers all
aspects of farming. Smart farming based on the IoT increases

production by making better use of natural resources and inputs, as
well                                                as better land and environmental management. 
Furthermore,
artificial intelligence enables the automation of traditional agriculture
operations that must be done manually through the use of machine
vision and deep learning. Image analysis and machine learning

algorithms based on AI can be utilized to automatically detect and track
fruits, pests and diseases, plant phenotyping and yield prediction.

Adopting these cutting-edge technologies digitalizes and transforms

the agricultural system to alleviate the pressure of producing more food
with less for the growing world population.


References

Agrawal, V. K., & Bhalwar, R. (2009). Household water purification: Low-cost
interventions. Medical Journal, Armed Forces India, 65(3), 260–263. https://doi.
org/10.1016/S0377-1237(09)80019-1

[Crossref]

Ali, M. H., Hoque, M. R., Hassan, A. A., & Khair, A. (2007). Effects of deficit
irrigation on yield, water productivity, and economic returns of wheat.

Agricultural Water Management, 92(3), 151–161. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
agwat.2007.05.010

[Crossref]

Bekele, S., & Tilahun, K. (2007). Regulated deficit irrigation scheduling of onion
in a semiarid region of Ethiopia. Agricultural Water Management, 89(1–2), 148–

152. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.agwat.2007.01.002
[Crossref]

Chai, Q., Gan, Y., Zhao, C., Xu, H. L., Waskom, R. M., Niu, Y., & Siddique, K. H. M.
(2016). Regulated deficit irrigation for crop production under drought stress. A
review. Agronomy for Sustainable Development, 36(1), 1–21. https://doi.org/10.
1007/s13593-015-0338-6

[Crossref]

Comas, L. H., Trout, T. J., DeJonge, K. C., Zhang, H., & Gleason, S. M. (2019).
Water productivity under strategic growth stage-based deficit irrigation in
maize. Agricultural Water Management, 212, 433–440. https://doi.org/10.
1016/j.agwat.2018.07.015

[Crossref]

Government of Japan. (2016). Council of Science, Technology, and Innovation fifth
science and technology basic plan. Author.

Jayasekara, K. J. D. B. J. (2017). Desalination needs and appropriate technology for
Sri Lanka. University of Ruhuna.

Misachi, J. (2018). What percentage of the earth’s water is drinkable?

WorldAtlas. Retrieved June 23, 2022, from https://www.worldatlas.com/
articles/what-percentage-of-the-earth-s-water-is-drinkable.html


Modi, K. V., & Modi, J. G. (2019). Performance of single-slope double-basin
solar stills with small pile of wick materials. Applied Thermal Engineering, 149,
723–730. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.applthermaleng.2018.12.071

[Crossref]

Shalal, N., Low, T., Mccarthy, C., & Hancock, N. (2013). A review of autonomous
navigation systems in agricultural environments. In Innovative agricultural
technologies for a sustainable future (pp. 1–16). Society for Engineering in
Agriculture (SEAg).

Singh, M., & Ahmed, S. (2020). IoT based smart water management systems: A
systematic review. Materials Today: Proceedings, 46, 5211–5218. https://doi.
org/10.1016/j.matpr.2020.08.588

[Crossref]

United Nations. (2017). Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 6 July
2017, Work of the Statistical Commission pertaining to the Agenda 2030 for

sustainable development. Author.

United Nations. (2020). The sustainable development goals report 2020. United
Nations Statics Division. Retrieved from https://unstats.un.org/sdgs


© The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd. 2023

T. Ahamed (ed.), IoT and AI in Agriculture

https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-19-8113-5_2

2. Strategic Short Note: Transforming

Controlled Environment Plant Production
Toward                              Circular Bioeconomy Systems

K. C. Ting¹

(1)  Department of Agricultural and Biological Engineering, University
of                                       Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, Champaign, IL, USA

K. C. Ting

Email: kcting@illinois.edu

Abstract

The American Society of Agricultural and Biological Engineers (ASABE)
embarked                                                  a Roundtable 2020 initiative on 
transforming food and
agriculture toward circular systems (TFACS). A series of online
meetings were conducted to explore challenges and opportunities in

transformation processes for three constituent systems of (1) open-
field                                           plant production system, (2) controlled environment 
food and
agriculture system including controlled environment plant production
system (CEPPS), and (3) animal production system, respectively. In fall
2021, ASABE appointed a TFACS taskforce to continue the work of

Roundtable 2020 and start promoting the transformation of food and
agriculture toward circular bioeconomy systems (CBS). This strategic
short communication note reports high potential opportunities for
improving the circularity of CEPPS value chains and their

interconnected stages. System of systems (SoS) approach and mission-
oriented                              coordination/collaboration are needed in providing systems
informatics and analytics to effectively move the transformation

forward. Intelligence driven and empowered agricultural systems


(IDEAS), that make things work well, better, together, smarter, and
wiser are needed in advancing the goals of circular bioeconomy
systems, including CEPPS.

Keywords Circular economy – Food and agriculture – Sustainability –
System of systems – Intelligent agricultural systems

2.1 Introduction

In spring 2020, American Society of Agricultural and Biological
Engineers                                         (ASABE) formed a taskforce to move forward a 
Roundtable
2020 initiative on transforming food and agriculture toward circular
systems (TFACS). The activities of the initiative included conducting a
series of online meetings, preparing reports, and authoring articles for
a special issue of Resource, an ASABE membership magazine. The

online meetings were to discuss the concept of circular bioeconomy as
applied to food and agriculture, set the missions and goals, and
brainstorm challenges, opportunities, and required expertise in
improving the circularity of food and agriculture systems (ASABE,

2021). ASABE appointed a TFACS taskforce in Fall 2021 to continue
advancing the goals of circular bioeconomy systems (CBS).

Ellen MacArthur Foundation (2019) defines the concept of

circularity as “(1) design out waste and pollution, (2) keep productions
and                                           materials in use, and (3) regenerate natural 
systems.” The TFACS

taskforce added two more guidelines: increase use efficiencies and
provide                                           economic benefits. The Foundation also states 
three ambitions
for achieving circular economy of urban food systems: “(1) source food
grown regeneratively, and locally where appropriate, (2) design and
market healthier food products, and (3) make the most of food.”
National Research Council (2015) provides a description of the links
between the food supply chain (from farm input supply to consumer)
and the larger biophysical and social/institution context (social

organization, science and technology, biophysical environment,
markets, and policies).

The current food and agriculture systems are mostly linear and

open systems of systems (SoS), from resource inputs through the stages


of production, harvest and storage, processing and packaging, sales,
and consumption with waste processing and resource recovery and
transportation and distribution as interconnections. These linear

systems may be transformed to circular systems as depicted in Fig. 2.1.

Fig. 2.1 Circular food and agriculture value chain as a system of systems

2.2 Circular CEPPS

CEPPS has evolved from basic greenhouses to advanced greenhouses to
vertical farms/plant factories. The unique features of vertical
farms/plant factories are their high degree of closure and integration of
sophisticated components/subsystems, like a well-structured

production lines and warehouses seen in advanced manufacturing
facilities.                                           Some vertical farms/plant factories make use 
of both sun light
and supplemental light powered by electricity. The latest versions have
moved toward total “artificial” lighting (Kozai, 2018; Ting et al., 2022).

High potential opportunities for improving circularity of
basic/advanced                                      greenhouses and vertical farms/plant factories, 
at
various stages of respective value chains and systems levels, are

reported in the article by Ting et al. (2021). Examples of systems level
opportunities are shown in Fig. 2.2. In addition, the concepts and


methodologies of system of systems (SoS) and intelligence driven and
empowered agricultural systems (IDEAS) are very useful.

Fig. 2.2  Examples of high potential opportunities for transforming controlled
environment plant production toward circular bioeconomy systems

2.3 Closing Remarks

CBS is both a means and a goal in making food and agriculture systems
sustainable and profitable. Methodologies and tools for defining,
analyzing, designing, implementing, managing, operating, and
evaluating CBS are necessary in achieving its goals. Among them, the

concepts and approaches of SoS and IDEAS are essential in ensuring
that                                               a CBS functions holistically and intelligently. 
SoS reveals the
behaviors of a system’s individual constituent systems and their
interactions. IDEAS may be enabled and implemented by human
supervised cyber-physical systems. CEPPS, a high-tech form of
bioeconomy system, has a high level of readiness for circularity

improvement and may serve as a model for other types of circular food
and agriculture systems.


References

ASABE. (2021). Resource, (March/April).

Ellen Macarthur Foundation. (2019). Cities and circular economy for food.
Author.

Kozai, T. (2018). Smart plant factory. Springer.
[Crossref]

National Research Council. (2015). A framework for assessing effects of the food
system. The National Academies Press.

Ting, K. C., Scott, N., & Mohtar, R. (2021). Circular controlled-environment plant
production systems. Resource, 2021(March/April), 25–29.

Ting, K. C., Timmons, M., & San Martin, R. (2022). Precision indoor farming and
alternative protein food systems. The Bridge, 2022(Summer), 41–47.


© The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd. 2023

T. Ahamed (ed.), IoT and AI in Agriculture

https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-19-8113-5_3

3. Artificial Lighting Systems for Plant Growth
and Development in Indoor Farming

Munirah Hayati Hamidon¹ and Tofael Ahamed²

(1) Graduate School of Science and Technology, University of Tsukuba,

Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan

(2) Faculty of Life & Environmental Sciences, University of Tsukuba, Tsukuba,
Ibaraki, Japan

Tofael Ahamed

Email: tofael.ahamed.gp@u.tsukuba.ac.jp

Abstract

Due to the increasing demand for food from the growing global population,
indoor farms have received attention from farmers because of their ability to
produce more food as a supplement to the conventional farming system. In a
highly controlled indoor environment, the application of artificial lighting is

essential in replacing the function of natural sunlight. The primary purpose of
artificial light sources is to promote plant growth. However, the operational
requirements of indoor plants vary widely and uniquely, and thus artificial

lighting systems become more complex. The light used for indoor farms must
satisfactorily address a variety of performance to ensure the optimum plant
growth and development. Therefore, this chapter discussed the key factors

involved in the specific lighting parameters such as light quality, quantity, and
duration for compliance to meet the growing requirements of indoor

cultivation. Furthermore, several types of artificial lights also have been
reviewed to understand which light type is reliable for indoor farms.

Keywords Indoor farming – Artificial lighting – Light quality – Light intensity –
Light duration

3.1 Introduction


The land resources for agriculture have been decreasing as more areas are
urbanized to accommodate other sectors, such as industry, manufacturing, and
housing development. However, the global population is increasing rapidly each
year and is projected to increase to 9.6 billion by 2050; thus, more food must be
produced to feed this population. Hence, urban agriculture (UA) is one of the

growing food security solutions to address the issues of global population and
urbanization that are rapidly increasing. UA is defined as the production,

processing, and distribution of food produced in cities for local consumption.
Vertical or indoor farming is one developing form of urban agriculture that is
currently booming and has been explored specifically by developed countries.

Farmers are increasingly adopting indoor farming due to the possibility of
regulating environmental conditions such as light and temperature in
accordance with the plant types and environmental requirements. Indoor
faming typically provides a much higher yield than traditional farming methods
and has the potential to supplement food provided by existing agriculture
practices. It allows farmers to produce their crops year-round without being

affected by the increasing trend in global warming and extreme climate changes.
Moreover, this advanced agricultural model has enabled crops to be grown
without the need for clearing additional land.

Generally, several main factors must be considered when setting up and
maintaining an indoor farm: location, type of cultivation system, crops, and
technology used (Wong et al., 2020). Indoor farms range in size from small

shipping containers to large vertical multi-layered buildings, enabling them to
be built not only in rural areas but also in cities. Regarding the cultivation type,
the soilless culture system is the most suitable cultivation practice for indoor
farming, as it frees plant from soil-related issues. Leafy vegetables, small fruits

such as tomatoes and strawberries, herbs, flowers, and microgreens are some of
the common types of crops that are suitable to grow in indoor farms. Currently,
green vegetables dominate the highest percentage of plants grown in indoor
farming worldwide due to their high nutrition per calorie compared to other

foods. Moreover, they are also rich in vitamins, minerals, fiber, and antioxidants
(Wong et al., 2020).

The use of technology is frequently the determining factor in the success of
an indoor farm. Technological advancements such as light emitting diode (LED)
lighting, sensors, and automation have made indoor farming more efficient and
customized for producing certain crops. The growth and development of plants
grown indoors rely entirely on artificial lighting systems (Fig. 3.1).

Understanding what type of light is required and how much it is required is the
key to effectively and successfully growing plants indoors. Plants require an

energy supply from light for photosynthesis. Photosynthesis is a process when


energy from light sources converts carbon dioxide (CO₂) and water into

carbohydrates and oxygen with the aid of chlorophyll pigments in the leaves.
Different plants grow differentially when they receive different light qualities,
intensities, and durations.

Fig. 3.1 Artificial lighting for indoor farming

3.2 Light for Plant Growth

Light is composed of particles called photons, which are bundles of the

electromagnetic field that contain a specific amount of energy. Electromagnetic
radiation is one type of wave that is expressed by speed (c), wavelength (λ), and
frequency (ν).

(3.1)


Equation (3.1) shows that the light wavelength is inversely proportional to
the frequency. An increase in frequency will decrease the light wavelength with
a corresponding increase in the energy of the photons that produce the light.

These photons produce light when a charged particle shifts from a higher

energy level to a lower energy level (Xu et al., 2016) (Fig. 3.2). The energy of a
photon is determined using the Planck–Einstein equation:

(3.2)

where h is the Planck constant.

Fig. 3.2 Photons produced from changes in the energy level to emit light

Three key aspects of light influence how plants grow and develop: quantity
or intensity, quality, and duration (Fig. 3.3) (Runkle, 2017). Light quantity refers

to the intensity or concentration produced by a light source. Light quality, on the
other hand, reflects the color or wavelength reaching the plant surface. Light
duration, also known as the photoperiod, is defined as the amount of time a
plant needs to be exposed to a light source.


Fig. 3.3  The principles of light and its importance for plant growth and development

3.3 Light Quantity

The light quantity needed by each plant differs. Some plants may require a very
minimal light intensity, but others may need a high light intensity to grow.

Plants perform the photosynthesis process within the radiation spectrum

between 400 and 700 nm, which is known as photosynthetically active radiation
(PAR).

Numerous studies have been conducted and have shown that the light
quantity is important for promoting plant growth and development. Under

certain conditions and in different plant types, a higher light intensity leads to
high yields. However, excess light may damage plants, and too little light will
inhibit growth (Barber & Andersson, 1992). This difference is because light
intensity is one of the most critical elements influencing the photosynthesis
process in plants. Photosynthesis is defined as the process by which green
plants use light to synthesize nutrients from carbon dioxide and water to

produce carbohydrates and oxygen (Fig. 3.4).


Fig. 3.4 The photosynthesis process

Plants store and use the carbohydrates produced during photosynthesis as
their nutrient source. Every plant begins its photosynthesis process differently,
depending on the energy levels of the light sources, which is known as the light
compensation point. This threshold is reached when the amount of light energy

available for the photosynthetic process is sufficient to create more oxygen than
the plant needs for respiration. Similarly, the CO₂ released by the plants through
respiration should not be greater than the amount of CO₂ consumed by the plant

during photosynthesis, resulting in null or negative net photosynthesis.

Light falls to the ground as tiny particles known as photons. The photons
encompass various energy quantities, depending on the light frequency.

However, photosynthesis is mainly related to the number of photons rather than
to their energy level. The light quantity reaching the plant varies according to

the distance between the plants and the light source. The light quantity is
determined by calculating the photosynthetic photon flux density (PPFD). The

PPFD is measured by calculating the number of photons in the PAR region that
reach a certain area at a constant distance (Fig. 3.5). It is typically reported in
μmol m−²s−¹, where μmol is a unit of counting based on Avogadro’s number:

(3.3)


Fig. 3.5 The measurement of light energy required for plants

By calculating the PPFD, we can understand the exact amount of light that is
received by or reached the plants for photosynthesis.

(3.4)

3.3.1 Plant Photosynthesis in Response to Light

In general, the photosynthesis rate is substantially influenced by the light
intensity. Initially, the photosynthesis rate increases as the light intensity

increases. However, after reaching the light saturation point, the rate eventually
approaches its maximum value. The light saturation point is defined as the point
when light intensity no longer affects the rate of photosynthesis. The

photosynthesis rate curve or light response curve (LRC) becomes flat when it
reaches this saturation point (Fig. 3.6).


Fig. 3.6 Change of photosynthesis rate with the light intensity

The LRC model quantifies the relationship between photosynthesis and light
intensity (Herrmann et al., 2020; Wan et al., 2018). The model is diversified and
has been determined using several empirical models: (1) a rectangular
hyperbola model, (2) a modified model of the rectangular hyperbola, (3) a

nonrectangular hyperbola model, and (4) an exponential function model (Wan
et al., 2018).

1. Rectangular Hyperbola Model

The rectangular hyperbola model is calculated as follows:

(3.5)

where Pn(I) is the net photosynthesis rate, I is the photosynthesis photon
flux density, α is the initial gradient of the light response curve, Pmax is the
maximum net photosynthetic rate and Rd is the dark respiration rate. Pmax is
determined as:

(3.6)

where β is the humidity coefficient and γ is the temperature coefficient.

2. Modified Model of the Rectangular Hyperbola

The mathematical expression of the modified model of the rectangular
hyperbola is described as follows:


(3.7)

where α is the initial gradient of the light response curve, β and γ are the
humidity and temperature coefficients, respectively, I is the photosynthesis
photon flux density, and Rd is the dark respiration.

3. Nonrectangular Hyperbola

The following equation is used to calculate the nonrectangular hyperbola
model:

(3.8)

where Pn(I) is the net photosynthesis rate, I is the photosynthesis photon
flux density, θ is the curve curvature, and α is the gradient of the plant

photosynthesis to the light response curve when I = 0, namely, the initial

gradient of the light response curve, which is also called the initial quantum
efficiency. Pmax is the maximum net photosynthetic rate, and Rd is the dark
respiration rate.

4. Exponential Function Model

The exponential function model that been used to determine the light
response of plant photosynthesis is calculated as follows:

(3.9)

In this equation, the definitions of all parameters are the same as those
described in Eqs. (3.5) to (3.8).

3.4 Light Quality

Light quality indicates the light wavelength or spectrum. The wavelengths
emitted by the sun range from 280 to 2800 nm, which is 97% of the total
spectral distribution (Kozai et al., 2015). They are classified as ultraviolet,
visible light, and infrared. The lowest wavelengths have the highest energy,

indicating that ultraviolet radiation has higher energy than infrared radiation.

The wavelengths visible to humans range from 380 to 770 nm, which are

referred to as visible light. The visible light is split into violet (380–430 nm),
blue (430–500 nm), green (500–570 nm), yellow (570–590 nm), orange (590–

630 nm), and red (630–770 nm).


Two prominent types of effective radiation for plants are known as (1)
photosynthetically active radiation (PAR) and (2) physiologically active
radiation. The physiologically active radiation is divided into five wavebands:
Ultraviolet (UV) 300–400 nm, blue light (B) 400–500 nm, green light (G) 500–
600 nm, red light (R) 600–700 nm, and far-red light (FR) 700–800 nm.

Meanwhile, the waveband of PAR ranges from 400 to 700 nm (Fig. 3.7) (Tazawa,
1999; McCree, 1981).

Fig. 3.7 The visible light spectrum distributions

The green pigment in plants that absorbs PAR, chlorophyll, has two
absorption peaks: red and blue light. Plants usually absorb only a small amount
of green light and reflect it back, which is the reason most plants appear green
to humans (Fig. 3.8).


Fig. 3.8  Spectrum of plant absorption, reflection, and transmission

The functions of light for food production should be to promote rapid
seedling growth, improve branching density, support the developing leaf size,
and enhance the flowering/fruiting cycle irrespective of the season to maximize
production quality and quantity. An understanding of the effects of different
wavelengths of the light spectrum on plant growth is essential to provide a

proper artificial light system for cultivating vegetables in indoor environments.

Light quality not only affects the growth and morphology of plants but also
regulates metabolite accumulation (phytochemicals) in plants (Fig. 3.9)

(Paradiso & Proietti, 2021; Wong et al., 2020).

Fig. 3.9  The effect of the light spectrum on plant growth and development

3.4.1 Light Energy Use Efficiency of Lamps (LUEL) and Plant
Community (LUEP)


When estimating the photosynthesis rate or production of plants in indoor
farms, all the essential resources for plant growth, such as water, light, CO₂, and
temperature, are connected (Fig. 3.10) (Kozai, 2011). Among these resources,

the usage of artificial light in indoor farming is the most costly. Hence,

evaluating the light energy use efficiency of lamps (LUEL) and plant

communities (LUEP) is the primary concern in plant production for indoor
farms (Kozai, 2013).


Fig. 3.10 Essential resources for plants grown in indoor farms

The LUEL and LUEP are determined using the as following equations:

(3.10)

(3.11)

In these equations, f is the conversion factor from dry mass to chemical

energy fixed in dry mass (approximately 20 MJ kg−¹), D is the increase in the dry
mass of whole plants or salable parts of plants in the closed plant production
system (CPPS) (kg m−² h−¹), PARL is the photosynthetically active radiation

(PAR) emitted from lamps, and PARP is PAR received at the plant community

surface in the CPPS (MJ m−² h−¹). Alternatively, LUEL and LUEP have also been
calculated using the following equations:

(3.12)

(3.13)


where b is the minimum PAR energy to fix 1 mol of CO₂ in plants

(0.475 MJ mol−¹) and CP is the net photosynthetic rate of plants (mol m−² h−¹).

The ratio of PARP to PARL is known as the “utilization factor” in illumination
engineering. The LUE models have become valuable tools for estimating

vegetation productivity (Fig. 3.11) (Gamon, 2015).

Fig. 3.11  Light use efficiency (LUE) concept for estimating the photosynthesis rate

3.5 Light Duration or Photoperiod

The quantity of daily daylight hours exerts a direct effect on the growth and

flowering of many plant species. Therefore, the manipulation of daylight hours
is important for scheduling the amount of light needed for certain plants

growing indoors. A photoperiod is defined as the light duration within a specific
time span, usually a 24-h period. Photoperiod control is essential for indoor
farming, especially for the flowering process, as every plant responds differently
to the relative length of the light and dark periods (Boyle, 1992). Plants are

categorized into three classes according to the light duration needed to trigger
blooming or flowering.

1. Day-Neutral Plants (DNP)

The flowering time for day-neutral plants may be any duration of the day.
Normally, they bloom after achieving specified developmental phases.

Examples include tomatoes, cucumber, hydrangea, sunflower, and pepper.


2. Short-Day Plants (SDP)

These plants only require a short period of daylight (approximately 8–10 h).

The flowering process only occurs when the photoperiod is less than a

critical day length (Fig. 3.12). For SDP, flower blooms occur either in early
spring or fall. When the day length surpasses a certain threshold, plants
discontinue flowering and begin the vegetative phase. Examples include
potato, zinnia, soybean, cosmos, poinsettia, and chrysanthemum.

3. Long-Day Plants (LDP)

LDP require a relatively longer time of daylight than night to bloom (usually
14–16 h). The plants only bloom when the photoperiod surpasses the

critical day length (Fig. 3.12). Late spring to early summer is the usual
flowering season for LDP. Examples include hibiscus, radish, cabbage,
spinach, and lettuce.


Fig. 3.12  (a) The photoperiodic response in long- and short-day plants. (b) The
photoperiodic regulation of flowering in long- and short-day plants

By understanding how daylength affects plant development, we can further
manipulate the photoperiod of indoor farming to promote different stages of
development in photoperiod-responsive crops. Furthermore, flowering in plants
is   more responsive to dark periods than to light periods. Thus, manipulation of

the photoperiod benefits growers in planning the flowering process for their
plants and ensuring that they produce the flower even if it is not during their
flowering period. If growers need the LDP to bloom, they can extend the light
period into the night, which is known as night interruption control.

3.5.1 Daily Light Integral (DLI)


Often, the light duration or photoperiod of plant growth is related to the daily

light integral (DLI). The DLI is the total number of photons of PAR accumulated
in a particular area received by plants in 24 h. It is an important index that

combines both the light intensity and photoperiod (Xu et al., 2021). DLI exerts
significant effects not only on plant growth and development but also on plant
yield and quality, as it ensures that the plants perceive the optimum amount of
light according to their growth cycle (Xu et al., 2021).

The DLI is a simple metric to calculate for indoor farming compared to

cultivation outdoors, since light intensity and photoperiod remain constant in
each stage of cultivation. In outdoor cultivation, calculating the DLI becomes

trickier due to the atmosphere and seasonal changes that occur during the 24-h
period. The DLI is calculated as follows:

(3.14)

By determining the DLI in indoor farming, growers can strategize their
artificial lighting operation so that it meets the specific requirements

corresponding to the plants’ growth cycle and stage.

3.6 Artificial Lights for Plants Growth

A significant increase in the number of studies conducted on the use of lighting
in the fields of plant and animal production has been observed during the last
several decades. Different types of lighting, light wavelength ratios, and light
intensities on various species of plants have been the research focus for
improving plant growth, particularly in indoor horticulture fields. Studies have
reported that even when equivalent light treatments are applied, the growth

outcomes vary depending on the plant species.

Generally, artificial light sources are categorized into three main types
according to the principle of light emission: incandescence, discharge light
emission, and electroluminescence (Kozai et al., 2015; Tazawa, 1999) (Fig.
3.13).


Fig. 3.13 Classification of artificial light sources

3.6.1 Incandescent Lamps

The incandescent lamp was one of the pioneering artificial light sources used
for indoor farming before any other lights were developed. Incandescent light
sources, as the name indicates, create light by incandescence, which is the

emission of light due to heat. An incandescent light bulb is generated by placing
a filament in a vacuum or inert-gas-filled container called a bulb. When an

electric current is passed across the filament, it will heat up and glow with
blackbody radiation and finally achieve incandescence. The filament must be
placed  in a bulb to prevent the metal from oxidizing and overheating. Instead of
a vacuum, inert gas helps delay the evaporation of the heated filament.

In the early years, incandescent light bulbs were used as indoor lighting
since they only need a power supply to operate without any supplementary
equipment. The production costs are also relatively inexpensive and may

operate on either alternating current (AC) or direct current (DC). However, they
are very inefficient due to the intrinsic physics of blackbody radiation and are

thus much less suitable for plant growth compared to other grow lights. A
substantial amount of the input energy utilized to generate light is wasted as


heat. When contemplating their usage to grow plants, the high heat generation
of incandescent lights may be harmful to plants.

Incandescent lights are not recommended to be placed closer than 24 inch
to a plant to avoid damage. However, this minimum operating distance

established for safety reasons may prevent the plants from receiving proper
light intensity and eventually affect their growth. Additionally, incandescent
lights emit more toward the red spectrum, depriving plants of blue light (Fig.
3.14) (Trinklein, 2016; G2V Optics Inc., n.d.).

Fig. 3.14 Spectrum of the incandescent lamp

3.6.2 Fluorescent Lamps

Another trendy type of lamp that is used for indoor farming is fluorescent
lamps. A fluorescent lamp generates light by transferring energy via a gas

contained within a tube. It generates visible light using the physical principles of
optical fluorescence via a low-pressure mercury-vapor gas discharge.

Fluorescence occurs when electrons return from an excited singlet state to their
ground state.

Fluorescent lights outperform incandescent bulbs in producing the light
required for a variety of plants, particularly vegetables grown inside, since the
lights are far more efficient and produce light mainly in the visible spectrum

(Fig. 3.15) (Trinklein, 2016). Moreover, fluorescent lights come in a variety of
colors and generate lower temperatures. Another advantage is that they

typically have a long lifespan. Despite their advantages over incandescent bulbs,
they require additional equipment, a ballast, which is a device that restricts the
amount of current flowing through a circuit, for their operation. The ballast is

needed to maintain the light at the proper voltage and current level. In addition,


they also do not last very long, are delicate, bulky, and have limitations in
providing a high lumen intensity.

Fig. 3.15 Spectrum of the fluorescent lamp

3.6.3 High Intensity Discharged (HID) Lamps

HID lamps have been traditionally used to supplement indoor farm lighting that
requires greater light intensities than fluorescent lighting. They are also known
as high-pressure discharge lamps, which operate at very high pressure and

temperature (Dutta Gupta & Agarwal, 2017). A series of high voltage electrical
pulses are transmitted between two electrodes at the end of the tube to

generate the HID light. Similar to a fluorescent lamp, an HID lamp also requires
ballast, as it provides a high voltage to generate light and sustains a sufficient

electrical current flow to the bulb.

Two main popular types of HID lamps are used for indoor farming: high-

pressure sodium (HPS) and ceramic metal halide (MH) lamps. Both HPS and MH
lamps use a gas discharge lamp with a combination of various vaporized metals,
each of which has a distinct color range. The HPS lamps mostly emit a fairly
monochromatic yellow–orange light, while the MH fixtures tend to produce a
blue–white color of light (Fig. 3.16) (U.S. Department of Energy, 2017).


Fig. 3.16 Spectra of the HPS and MH lamps

3.6.4 Light Emitting Diodes (LED)

LEDs are more robust and have longer lifespans than other traditional light
sources, such as incandescent and fluorescent lamps. The color of light emitted
from the LED is determined by the semiconductor material composition of an
LED, which defines the total wavelength of the photon light emissions. With the
currently available cutting-edge technology, LEDs can be customized to emit a
certain wavelength and generate either narrow- or wide-band light that

matches a specific plant requirement for maximum growth (Fig. 3.17) (Xu et al.,
2016).

Fig. 3.17 Spectra of LEDs


For instance, red and blue LEDs are frequently used because they span the
spectrum where plants most efficiently absorb light. Nevertheless, some studies
have shown that certain plants also utilize some parts from green and yellow

regions, suggesting that grow light producers must develop LEDs with broader
radiation. Additionally, some wavelengths outside the 400–700 nm range may
also exert beneficial effects on plant growth. As a result, some manufacturers
have modified LEDs such that they also deliver light that encompasses areas
below 400 nm or above 700 nm.

As mentioned above, most of the grow light sources not only produce light
but also produce heat, which may be harmful to the plants. Depending on the

grow light types, plants may experience heat stress and localized low humidity
if they are positioned too close to those lights. LED lights generate far less heat.

Unlike HID, placing LEDs closer to the plants may help maximize the light
intensity and spectrum received by the plants without overheating them.

Additionally, LEDs are environmentally friendly, work without a ballast and have
extended lamp lifetimes. Due to their effectiveness and affordability, LED grow

lights are increasingly replacing other grow lights, such as fluorescent lights and
HIDs, in indoor farming operations (Fig. 3.18).

Fig. 3.18  Example of the usage of LEDs for growing lettuces indoors

3.7 Effect of Using Artificial Light on Plants Grown Indoor


Types of
plants

Leafy
vegetables

Plant

Chinese cabbage

Light

Red + Blue + White LED
(130 μmol m−2 s−1)

Light
duration

18 h day−1

Effect on plants

Optimal growth of
leaf length and

References

Duc et al.
(2021)


Types of
plants

Fruit
vegetable/fruits

Plant

Lettuce
(“Cheongchima”)

Sweet basil
Water spinach

Lettuce (“Frillice
Crisp”)

Tomato
(“Dometica”)

Tomato and red
pepper

Tomata
(“Merlice”)

Tomata
(“Komeett”)

Strawberry
(“Maehyang”)

Light

Fluorescent lamps

External electrode
fluorescent lamps
(150  μmol m−2 s−1)

Red (663 nm) + Blue
(435 nm) LED

Red LED

(200 ± 15 μmol m−2 s−1)

Far-red (700–

800 nm) + Red (600–

700 nm) + Blue (400–

500 nm) LED

HPS lamps + LED
(30 mol m−2 day−1)

Cool white

LED + supplemental Far-
red LED

(200 μmol m−2 s−1)

HPS lamps

(20 μmol m−2 s−1)

Far-red (730 nm) + Red
(638 nm) + Blue

(450 nm) LED

Mint-white LEDs
(180 μmol m− 2 s−1)

Light
duration

14 h day−1

20 h day−1

8 h day−1

14 h day−1

–

18 h day−1

16 h day−1

16 h day−1

16 h day−1

16 h day−1

Effect on plants

weight.

High glucosinolate
content.

Increased fresh
weight, dry weight,
leaf area, and daily
biomass
accumulation rate.

Increased the
growth yield.

Enhanced water
spinach growth
without causing
intumescence.

Promoted the
growth and
increased macro-
and micro-nutrient
content.

Increased fresh
weigh of fruits.

Increased
hypocotyl length.

Increased leaf
temperature,
photosynthetic
rate, transpiration
rate, and plant
tissues water
content.

Increased plant
growth,
accelerated
flowering, and
increased fruit
yield.

Increased leaves
number and area,
top/root dry
weight ratio, and
number of newly
formed
runners/propagule.

References

Cho et al.
(2020)

Rihan et al.
(2020)

Kitayama et
al. (2019)

Pinho et al.
(2017)

Verheul et
al. (2022)

Hwang et al.
(2020)

Kim et al.
(2019)

Kalaitzoglou
et al. (2019)

Lee et al.
(2020)


Types of
plants

Microgreens

Flowers

Plant

Everbearing
strawberry
(“Elan”)

Capsicum
seedlings (“CAU-
24”)

Kale, Cabbage,
Arugula, and
Mustard

Soybean sprout

Common
buckwheat
sprouts

Peony (“Da
Fugui”)

Digitalis
purpurea

Light

White LED

(300 μmol m−2 s−1)

White LED (with
Red + Blue ratio)
(250 μmol m−2 s−1)

Red + Blue LED light
(100–

600 μmol m−2 s−1)

White fluorescence light
(100 μmol m−2 s−1)

Blue LED

(12.41 μmol m−2 s−1)

Red + Blue LED light
(200–

220 μmol m−2 s−1)

Red + Blue LED light
(150 μmol m−2 s−1)

Light
duration

24 h day−1

12 h day−1

16 h day−1

14 h day−1

–

14 h day−1

18 h day−1

Effect on plants

Increased yield,
TSS, ascorbic acid,
anthocyanin, and
crop productivity.

Increased seedlings
biomass,
chlorophyll
content, and
photosynthetic
rate.

Fresh and dry
weight increased as
light intensity
increased, but
decreased
hypocotyl    length
and hue angle
linearly.

Reduced hypocotyl
length but
increased the
diameter of
hypocotyls.

Increased
hypocotyl length.

Increased number
of flowers,
enhanced
blooming  rate,
flower diameter,
and florescence.

Increased micro-
and macro-
elements as well as
cardenolides
accumulation.

References

Maeda and
Ito (2020)

Liu et al.
(2019)

Jones-
Baumgardt
et     al. (2019)

Yuan et al.
(2015)

Lee et al.
(2014)

Wan et al.
(2020)

Verma et al.
(2018)

3.8 Conclusion

In conclusion, this chapter has provided adequate information on principles of
light (light intensity, quality, and photoperiod) and their importance as main
indicators that must be considered when using artificial lighting in indoor
farms. Higher irradiance is often associated with faster development in most
plants because it produces more photons to drive photosynthesis and enhance


biomass accumulation. However, irradiance greater than 300 μmol m−² s−¹ may
have reached the light saturation limit. As a result, photosynthetic efficiency
decreases and affects the light consumption efficiency.

Despite having many diverse types of light, LEDs are currently the preferred
light source for indoor farming lighting. With appropriate lighting control, they
provide sufficient flexibility in altering the spectrum range of artificial lights.

This approach may appropriately influence the biological and physiological
attributes of a plant’s growth. Furthermore, intelligent dimming may also be
used  to offer a seamless transition between photoperiods while achieving the
required plant irradiance, depending on the time of the day.

The photoperiod is an environmental indicator that regulates flowering and
has been manipulated to adjust the process of flowering for indoor ornamental
crops. Photoperiod requirements will be adjusted based on plant types, mostly
for flowers of either long-day or short-day plants. However, research on the

effect of the photoperiod on leafy vegetables cultivated indoors is relatively less
prominent. Compared to the light quantity and quality, photoperiod exerts less
of an effect on the growth of and phytonutrient accumulation in leafy

vegetables. The photoperiods (14–18 h light) that are normally used for leafy

vegetables are currently at the optimal level. Hence, any changes in the common
photoperiod of the leafy vegetables will not provide any substantial advantages
for their growth.

By knowing the light information, growers using indoor cultivation can
select and choose the best light intensity and light quality to achieve the

preferred growth characteristics of their plants. Furthermore, this knowledge
will also enable light producers to invent more ideal lighting devices, depending
on the market targeted for consumption and the morphological attributes
desired by indoor farming growers.

References

Barber, J., & Andersson, B. (1992). Too much of a good thing: Light can be bad for
photosynthesis. Trends in Biochemical Sciences, 17(2), 61–66.

[Crossref][PubMed]

Boyle, T. (1992). Photoperiod control systems for greenhouse crops. Floral Notes, 4(6),
2–4.

Cho, J. Y., Yoo, K. S., Kim, J., Choi, B. J., & Oh, W. (2020). Growth and bioactive compounds
of lettuce as affected by light intensity and photoperiod in a plant factory using external
electrode fluorescent lamps. Horticultural Science and Technology, 38, 645.


Duc, N. V., Chowdhury, M., Ali, M., Park, S. U., Kim, Y. J., & Chung, S. O. (2021). Effects of
light conditions on growth and glucosinolate content of Chinese cabbage grown in a
plant factory. In K.-J. Bergstrand & M. T. Naznin (Eds.), IX International Symposium on
Light in Horticulture (Vol. 1337, pp. 171–178). ISHS.

Dutta Gupta, S., & Agarwal, A. (2017). Artificial lighting system for plant growth and
development: Chronological advancement, working principles, and comparative
assessment. In S. D. Gupta (Ed.), Light emitting diodes for agriculture (pp. 1–25). Springer.
[Crossref]

G2V Optics Inc. (n.d.). Horticulture lighting for commercial growers. Author. Retrieved
from https://www.mtbrandao.com/files/products/Horticulture_Lighting_Article_by_
G2V_Optics.pdf

Gamon, J. A. (2015). Optical sampling of the flux tower footprint. Biogeosciences
Discussions, 12(6), 4973.

Herrmann, H. A., Schwartz, J. M., & Johnson, G. N. (2020). From empirical to theoretical
models of light response curves-linking photosynthetic and metabolic acclimation.

Photosynthesis Research, 145(1), 5–14.
[Crossref][PubMed]

Hwang, H., An, S., Lee, B., & Chun, C. (2020). Improvement of growth and morphology of
vegetable seedlings with supplemental far-red enriched LED lights in a plant factory.

Horticulturae, 6(4), 109.
[Crossref]

Jones-Baumgardt, C., Llewellyn, D., Ying, Q., & Zheng, Y. (2019). Intensity of sole-source
light-emitting diodes affects growth, yield, and quality of Brassicaceae microgreens.

HortScience, 54(7), 1168–1174.
[Crossref]

Kalaitzoglou, P., Van Ieperen, W., Harbinson, J., Van der Meer, M., Martinakos, S.,
Weerheim, K., Nicole, C., & Marcelis, L. F. (2019). Effects of continuous or end-of-day far-
red  light on tomato plant growth, morphology, light absorption, and fruit production.

Frontiers in Plant Science, 10, 322.
[Crossref][PubMed][PubMedCentral]

Kim, H. J., Lin, M. Y., & Mitchell, C. A. (2019). Light spectral and thermal properties
govern biomass allocation in tomato through morphological and physiological changes.
Environmental and Experimental Botany, 157, 228–240.

[Crossref]

Kitayama, M., Nguyen, D. T., Lu, N., & Takagaki, M. (2019). Effect of light quality on
physiological disorder, growth, and secondary metabolite content of water spinach


(Ipomoea aquatica forsk) cultivated in a closed-type plant production system.

Horticultural Science and Technology, 37, 206.

Kozai, T. (2011). Improving light energy utilization efficiency for a sustainable plant
factory with artificial light. Proceedings of Green Lighting Shanghai Forum, 2011, 375–383.

Kozai, T. (2013). Resource use efficiency of closed plant production system with artificial
light: Concept, estimation and application to plant factory. Proceedings of the Japan

Academy, 89B(10), 447–461.

[Crossref]

Kozai, T., Niu, G., & Takagaki, M. (2015). Plant factory: An indoor vertical farming system for
efficient quality food. Academic Press.

Lee, S. W., Seo, J. M., Lee, M. K., Chun, J. H., Antonisamy, P., Arasu, M. V., Suzuki, T., Al-
Dhabi, N. A., & Kim, S. J. (2014). Influence of different LED lamps on the production of
phenolic compounds in common and Tartary buckwheat sprouts. Industrial Crops and
Products, 54, 320–326.

[Crossref]

Lee, H., Park, S. W., Pham, M. D., Hwang, H., & Chun, C. (2020). Effect of the light spectrum
of white LEDs on the productivity of strawberry transplants in a plant factory with
artificial lighting. Horticulture, Environment, and Biotechnology, 61(6), 971–979.

[Crossref]

Liu, N., Ji, F., Xu, L., & He, D. (2019). Effects of LED light quality on the growth of pepper
seedling in plant factory. International Journal of Agricultural and Biological Engineering,
12(5), 44–50.

[Crossref]

Maeda, K., & Ito, Y. (2020). Effect of different PPFDs and photoperiods on growth and
yield of everbearing strawberry ‘Elan’ in plant factory with white LED lighting.

Environmental Control in Biology, 58(4), 99–104.
[Crossref]

McCree, K. J. (1981). Photosynthetically active radiation. In O. L. Lange et al. (Eds.),

Physiological plant ecology I (pp. 41–55). Springer.
[Crossref]

Paradiso, R., & Proietti, S. (2021). Light-quality manipulation to control plant growth
and photomorphogenesis in greenhouse horticulture: The state of the art and the
opportunities of modern LED systems. Journal of Plant Growth Regulation, 41, 1–39.

Pinho, P., Jokinen, K., & Halonen, L. (2017). The influence of the LED light spectrum on
the growth and nutrient uptake of hydroponically grown lettuce. Lighting Research &
Technology, 49(7), 866–881.

[Crossref]


Rihan, H. Z., Aldarkazali, M., Mohamed, S. J., McMulkin, N. B., Jbara, M. H., & Fuller, M. P.
(2020). A novel new light recipe significantly increases the growth and yield of sweet
basil (Ocimum basilicum) grown in a plant factory system. Agronomy, 10(7), 934.
[Crossref]

Runkle, E. (2017). Effects of blue light on plants. Michigan State University Extension:
Floriculture Team. Retrieved from http://www.flor.hrt.msu.edu/assets/Uploads/Blue-
light.pdf

Tazawa, S. (1999). Effects of various radiant sources on plant growth (Part 1). Japan
Agricultural Research Quarterly, 33, 163–176.

Trinklein, D. H. (2016). Lighting indoor houseplants. University of Missouri. Retrieved
from https://extension.missouri.edu/media/wysiwyg/Extensiondata/Pub/pdf/
agguides/hort/g06515.pdf

U.S Department of Energy. (2017). Energy savings potential of SSL in horticultural

applications. Author. Retrieved from https://www.energy.gov/sites/prod/files/2017/
12/f46/ssl_horticulture_dec2017.pdf

Verheul, M. J., Maessen, H. F., Paponov, M., Panosyan, A., Kechasov, D., Naseer, M., &
Paponov, I. A. (2022). Artificial top-light is more efficient for tomato production than
inter-light. Scientia Horticulturae, 291, 110537.

[Crossref]

Verma, S. K., Gantait, S., Jeong, B. R., & Hwang, S. J. (2018). Enhanced growth and
cardenolides production in Digitalis purpurea under the influence of different LED
exposures in the plant factory. Scientific Reports, 8(1), 1–12.

[Crossref]

Wan, L., Xing, Z., Chang, X., Liu, J., & Zhang, G. (2018). Research on light response curve
fitting model of four Chamaenerion plants on the Serzilla Mountains. American Journal of
Plant Sciences, 9(8), 1630–1645.

[Crossref]

Wan, Y., Wu, Y., Zhang, M., Hong, A., & Liu, Y. (2020). Effects of photoperiod extension via
red–blue light-emitting diodes and high-pressure sodium lamps on the growth and
photosynthetic characteristics in Paeonia lactiflora. Acta Physiologiae Plantarum, 42(12),
1–9.

[Crossref]

Wong, C. E., Teo, Z. W. N., Shen, L., & Yu, H. (2020). Seeing the lights for leafy greens in
indoor vertical farming. Trends in Food Science & Technology, 106, 48–63.

[Crossref]


Xu, Y., Chang, Y., Chen, G., & Lin, H. (2016). The research on LED supplementary lighting
system for plants. Optik, 127(18), 7193–7201.

[Crossref]

Xu, W., Lu, N., Kikuchi, M., & Takagaki, M. (2021). Continuous lighting and high daily light
integral enhance yield and quality of mass-produced nasturtium (Tropaeolum majus L.)
in plant factories. Plants, 10(6), 1203.

[Crossref][PubMed][PubMedCentral]

Yuan, M., Jia, X., Ding, C., Zeng, H., Du, L., Yuan, S., Zhang, Z., Wu, Q., Hu, C., & Liu, J.
(2015). Effect of fluorescence light on phenolic compounds and antioxidant activities of
soybeans (Glycine max L. Merrill) during germination. Food Science and Biotechnology,
24(5), 1859–1865.

[Crossref]


© The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd. 2023

T. Ahamed (ed.), IoT and AI in Agriculture

https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-19-8113-5_4

4. An IoT-Based Precision Irrigation System
to                              Optimize Plant Water Requirements for
Indoor and Outdoor Farming Systems

Mohammad Hussain Seyar¹, ², P. D. Kahandage¹, ³ and Tofael Ahamed⁴

(1) Graduate School of Science and Technology, University of Tsukuba,

Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan

(2) Department of Soil Science and Irrigation, Kabul University, Kabul,

Afghanistan

(3)  Department of Agricultural Engineering and Soil Science, Faculty
of                                      Agriculture, Rajarata University of Sri Lanka, Mihintale, 
Sri
Lanka

(4) Faculty of Life & Environmental Sciences, University of Tsukuba,
Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan

Tofael Ahamed

Email: tofael.ahamed.gp@u.tsukuba.ac.jp

Abstract

Irrigated agriculture plays a crucial role in fulfilling global food
demands                                             since it is reliable in some parts of the 
world, particularly in
arid and semiarid regions, for meeting plant water requirements.

Considering the increasing water shortage due to the effects of climate
change, water management in agriculture is the key to securing water
for water consumers, including agriculture, municipal, industrial, and
daily utilizations. Thus, efficient and robust irrigation management and
controlling technologies should be adopted. Integrating precision
irrigation into drip and sprinkler irrigation systems in greenhouses and
open fields may represent a promising approach for water saving


systems. The irrigation operation is carried out based on soil, plant, and
atmospheric monitoring. The advances in technology have provided

growers with better opportunities for irrigation management and
control. Therefore, the aim of this chapter is to explore a precision

water management system that optimizes plant water requirements

through sensing and perceptions from indoor to outdoor environments.
In                                              the case of the outdoor environment, multiple 
factors, such as the
field capacity and evapotranspiration, are considered while noting the
best practices for saving water. In this regard, a concise review is

presented to determine the scopes of IoT-based systems for precision
application. Through this review, we have found that in implementing
IoT-based irrigation systems, better water use efficiency can be
achieved. Furthermore, if these systems are incorporated with

computer algorithms such as neural networks, fuzzy logic systems and
hybrid systems, water loss can be minimized, while the production level
has the opportunity for a significant increase in the production of crops
and vegetables. Thus, precision irrigation systems are outlined with a

number of networks and integrated with intelligent IoT-based drip and
sprinkler irrigation systems to save water and promote the
implementation of reuse systems in irrigation projects.

Keywords Precision irrigation – IoT – Irrigation scheduling – Water
shortage                                                  – Indoor and outdoor cultivation systems 
– Sensors – Artificial
intelligence

4.1 Introduction

Considering the rapid population growth, which is projected to reach
ten                                            billion by 2050 (de Pascale et al., 2019), and water 
scarcity, an
immediate requirement for producers to develop innovative and

efficient methods of production to feed the increasing global population
while                                               using the limited available water has been 
noted. The problem of
water scarcity, which is a global concern and has the chance to increase
further due to climate change and increasing global food demands,

requires serious attention over the coming years. In addressing this
problem, water consumers should be identified. Generally, four


categories of water consumption have been noted, including
agricultural,                                          industrial, municipality, and daily 
utilization. Of these,
agriculture constitutes a large proportion of water use and accounts for
over 70% of global freshwater usage. This trend is expected to increase
due to the effects of climate change. Furthermore, less than 20% of the
land worldwide is allocated to irrigated agriculture (Adeyemi et al.,

2017), but it provides 40% of the global food supply, which highlights

the importance of irrigation in global food security. Given the increasing
water                                            shortage, enhancing water use efficiency in 
agricultural systems
such as irrigation is the key in securing water for agricultural,
industrial, municipal, and daily utilization purposes (Buttaro et al.,

2015). Therefore, practicing precision irrigation might not only help to
save a significant amount of water but also increase productivity.

In the case of meeting global food demands, the implementation of
precision irrigation systems in the protected environment where the

condition is fully controlled and plants will be provided with ideal
conditions of growth is essential. Protected agriculture has become

popular over the last 30 years (Elaydi, 2017) and is rapidly increasing
worldwide                                           (Hemming et al., 2019). In this type of 
agriculture, almost all
parameters are controlled, and producers can provide their plants the
optimal environment throughout the growing season. In addition to the
advantages of serving as a promising approach in terms of both quality
production and addressing water shortages, it may also protect plants

from unfavorable conditions such as strong wind, pests, intense rainfall,
bird                                             damage, and low temperature. Aside from other 
parameters,
irrigation management is vital for successful production. Over-or

under-irrigation is usually associated with adverse effects. Therefore,
applying an optimal amount of irrigation is essential for reasonable
production. Protected cultivation has been practiced in many forms,
including greenhouses, indoor farms and under screens or

screenhouses, which can save a significant proportion of water, up to

37% in screenhouses (Pirkner et al., 2014) and 20–40% in greenhouses
(Nikolaou                                                  et al., 2019). Mindful of the water 
shortage, it is a reliable
system for the intensive production of vegetables, fruits, and flowers.

Notably, the efficiency of protected agriculture in terms of water
savings                                          mainly depends on the type of irrigation systems 
used. For


example, employing microirrigation systems such as drip and sprinkler
irrigation, which are associated with high water application efficiency
and low water loss, usually result in better water use efficiency. These
systems are mostly practiced in greenhouses due to good water

productivity. Incorporation of automation into these systems adds

further benefits to the production system by which irrigators achieve
full                                             control over the greenhouse plants’ growth 
factors, such as
irrigation. In precision irrigation systems, the proper amount of water

is managed and applied at the correct time, which leads to better water
productivity and environmental sustainability.

Precision irrigation management has been carried out using

Internet of Things (IoT) (Kodali et al., 2017), machine learning (Sidhu
et                                               al., 2020), a combination of IoT and machine 
learning (Goap et al.,
2018), digital solutions (Mohamed et al., 2021), and remote sensing

(Belaqziz et al., 2013). IoT-based precision irrigation is usually
practiced by employing sensors due to its low cost, accuracy and overall
profitability                                            (Van Iersel et al., 2013). Precision 
irrigation combined with
IoT technology further facilitates real-time monitoring, processing, and
applies irrigation on demand. The IoT has been widely used in different
sectors, including agriculture (irrigation), where sensors are deployed
in the field to sense the data from the field and send it to the

microcontroller. Two types of technology are commonly used to
monitor                                               the water status in crops, soil, and the 
environment: wireless
and wired technologies. Each is deployed under specific conditions.

Recently, wireless technology utilization has increased due to the ease
of                                         installation, economic considerations, and reliable 
performance.

Wireless-based technology has been employed in different areas of
agriculture, including precision agriculture, horticulture, cattle, and
crop monitoring, as well as environmental monitoring, which are the
main classes of agricultural IoT and wireless technology-based
applications (Khriji et al., 2021).

IoT-based precision irrigation systems have been investigated and
reviewed in several articles. However, a comprehensive review of IoT-
based precision irrigation along with artificial intelligent systems in
both indoor and outdoor cultivation environments has not been

conducted. Therefore, we have performed an extensive review of the


recent developments in the application of IoT- and intelligent-based
irrigation,                                     monitoring, and controlling. The main objective of 
this article
is to provide a comprehensive literature review on different precision
irrigation management practices in both greenhouse and open field

cultivation systems along with their advantages and drawbacks.

4.2 Precision Irrigation Management

The irrigation operation is carried out to meet crop water requirements
while                                          substantially increasing crop yields. In other 
words, the overall

goal of irrigation is to maintain the soil water balanced between
irrigation/rainfall                                                and evapotranspiration (Fig. 
4.6). In irrigation
management, two questions should be answered: when should
irrigation be applied and how much water should be applied. However,
answering these questions is not an easy task and requires careful

consideration because several factors exert direct and indirect effects
on                                             plant water requirements and they vary based on 
plant type,

environment, and type of soil. Furthermore, over-irrigation may lead to
water loss, fungal diseases, CO₂ emissions, N₂O emissions, soil nutrient
leaching, soil salinization, energy wastage, and low crop yields, while

under-irrigation will result in water stress to plants and low crop

yields.

Precision irrigation is defined as the precise management of
applying                                               the appropriate amount of water at the 
correct time and
minimizing adverse environmental impacts. This irrigation system, in
addition to enhancing water use efficiency, also improves both crop
quality and quantity and reduces energy costs and adverse

environmental impacts (Swarup et al., 2013). The time or frequency
and volume of water to be applied depend on the types of plants and
soil,                                     environmental conditions, water availability and economic

considerations. For instance, in sandy soil, frequent irrigation is usually
applied, while in clayey soil, the irrigation interval might be longer. Two
methods for measuring how much water the plants need or how much
water to apply have been developed: direct and indirect methods. The
direct method measures the plant and soil water contents, while the


indirect method measures environmental parameters, such as the light
intensity, air temperature, relative humidity, wind speed, and rainfall.

With the advances in technology and the emergence of new and

cheap sensors, sensors are currently quite easy to employ to monitor
the                                           moisture content in the soil, plants, and atmosphere 
by

implementing precision irrigation systems. Precision irrigation systems
enable                                            irrigators to obtain real-time field-monitoring 
data and perform
irrigation on demand.

4.2.1 IoT Technologies for Precision Irrigation Systems

Different technologies have been developed in recent years either in

terms of communication or controlling systems, each of which has been
employed in various sectors, including agriculture and precision
irrigation. However, these technologies have their own specifications
based on the data transmission rate, frequency band, power

consumption, security considerations, and bandwidth. This section
introduces the recent IoT-based advanced technologies that have
potential for widespread utilization.

4.2.1.1 IoT Networking Backbone

The Internet of Things has been used in numerous fields, including
agriculture                                            and irrigation. Generally, IoT-based 
irrigation systems
consist of five layers: sensor node, network, gateway, cloud, and

application layers (Fig. 4.1). The first layer is the sensor node, which

consists of sensors and actuators. The sensors monitor the water status
in                                                the soil and plant and the evapotranspiration 
rate, while actuators

turn the solenoid valve/water pump on/off. The second layer is called
the                                      communication or network layer, where various networks, 
such as
radio-frequency identification (RFID), ultrawideband (UWB),

Bluetooth, Wi-Fi, ZigBee, Ethernet, 2G/3G/4G/5G, LoRaWAN, Sigfox,
and                                            NB-IoT, are employed to connect fields with cloud 
and application
layers. The application of each network differs based on the range of

communication, data transmission rate, security consideration, power
consumption, and frequency of communication. For instance, for short-
distance purposes, RFID, UWB, and Bluetooth are used; for medium-
distance purposes, Wi-Fi and ZigBee are used; and for long-distance


purposes, 2G/3G/4G/5G/LoRaWAN and NB-IoT have been employed.
Wireless technology plays a pivotal role in IoT-based systems. The use
of low-cost wireless sensors enhances the efficiency of precision
irrigation systems. Wireless sensor networks have been employed
successfully and have achieved an 80% cost reduction compared to
hardwired approaches (Khriji et al., 2021). Thus, the use of the

aforementioned networks based on our purpose makes monitoring,
analysis,                                              and control much more robust and efficient.

Fig. 4.1 Scheme of five layers of IoT-based precision irrigation

Another layer is the gateway layer, which functions as a bridge to
connect the sensor node with the application layer. The gateway layer

helps form and makes the long range and wide area network possible.
Cloud                                            servers store the data for a long time, where the 
irrigators can
access the collected data from any part of the world using a
smartphone or computer if they have an internet connection. The final
layer is the application layer, which runs the overall irrigation

operations. In fact, it is the main layer of the IoT-based irrigation
system                                           that performs the analysis of collected data from 
the field and
implements actions accordingly.

4.2.1.2 IoT: Irrigation Control System

Irrigation systems are controlled using either conventional methods or
intelligent systems. In the conventional approach, the majority of the
work is performed by humans, while in intelligent systems, most of the


work is performed by machines and robots. Over time, conventional
systems                                              have been replaced by automatic and 
intelligent technologies.
In some parts of the world, timer-based irrigation systems are
practiced, which facilitate watering tasks. In developed countries,
mostly intelligent irrigation control systems are employed due to the
ease of control and precise water application. Adopting advanced
irrigation control systems helps growers apply a proper amount of
water at the right time, enhance water use efficiency, increase yield,

reduce environmental impacts, and save labor (Owen et al., 2016).

The development of computer science has led to extensive
application                                             of programming in training and predicting, 
as well as

controlling various machines. By training the machine and applying
algorithms, the machine characterizes human thinking and executes
specific actions. The machine has the potential to analyze complex
problems and perform several tasks simultaneously, making the
machine smarter. We have focused more on the fuzzy logic, artificial

neural network, and hybrid systems that are widely implemented and
recommended by researchers.

4.2.1.2.1 Fuzzy Logic-Based Control System

The fuzzy logic system is the traditional Boolean logic extension that
has                                               the potential to express logical values between 
false and true and
explain problems in the world that are nonlinear and uncertain (Croock
Al-Janabi et al., 2018). In irrigation operations, several factors are
usually involved, which make the system complex and require a

comprehensive model to consider many factors at the same time. In this
case, the application of a mathematical model is impractical, and

employing an advanced model such as a fuzzy logic-based model
provides                                               a substantial benefit. Fuzzy logic-based 
systems run based on
inputs and produce one or several outputs (Krishnan et al., 2020). This
system has been proven to be effective in precision irrigation
management due to the high accuracy of the water requirement

calculation, resulting in increased water use efficiency. However, this
accuracy mainly depends on the individual’s knowledge and skills.

A fuzzy logic system is practiced both in indoors and outdoors.

Pacco (2022) used a fuzzy logic-based system to simulate temperature


and predict irrigation timing in the greenhouse. In another study, Azaza
et                                                 al. (2016) investigated the performance of a 
fuzzy logic system in

controlling the microclimate inside a greenhouse and found that a
system                                          integrated with a wireless data monitoring platform 
resulted in
significant energy and water savings. Similarly, Selmani et al. (2019)
developed a solar-powered irrigation system based on fuzzy logic in a
greenhouse, where the model consisted of two devices. The first device
used environmental parameters to calculate the watering duration,
while the second device used the actual resource level to examine the
pump potential. The authors concluded that the use of this system was
effective in scheduling watering.

4.2.1.2.2 Arti𝑓icial Neural Network-Based Control System

An artificial neural network is an algorithm that processes information
similar to how information is processed by the human brain (Abioye et
al., 2020). It has been applied in controlling precision irrigation
because of its learning potential and adaptability based on different

conditions. Generally, it consists of three or more layers (Fig. 4.1). As
shown                                                 in Fig. 4.1, the first layer is called the 
input layer, where several
parameters serve as inputs and then undergo a long process; ultimately,
a single output or several outputs will be achieved. In the case of

precision irrigation, the typical inputs include temperature, relative
humidity,                                               light intensity, rainfall, soil moisture 
content (Gu et al., 2021),
wind speed, and soil physical properties such as texture and the crop

coefficient. Artificial neural networks have been investigated in several
studies                                               and have been suggested to be a reliable tool 
for precision
irrigation control. Trajkovic et al. (2022) investigated the radial basis

function network for forecasting reference evapotranspiration, where
they                                              used environmental parameters such as 
temperature, sunshine,
wind speed, and relative humidity as inputs and found that the neural
network is useful as a robust tool for forecasting evapotranspiration.
Similarly, Trajkovic (2005) studied temperature as a single input in the
radial basis function network and compared the results with other
standard methods used worldwide, including reduced Penman–

Monteith, Hargreaves, and Thronthwaite methods. They also concluded
that                                                the neural network predicts evapotranspiration 
accurately. The


benefit of employing neural networks for predicting the water
requirements of plants is that they enable growers to predict the

amount of water needed for the plants for the upcoming hours, days or
even weeks. The system may be further improved by combining it with
other                                         intelligent models or systems. The typical input and 
output data
of AI-based control system is presented in Fig. 4.2.

Fig. 4.2 Schematic representation of artificial neural network

4.2.1.2.3 Hybrid Control System

In hybrid systems, two or more machine learning algorithms are
usually                                           involved. For example, in an intelligent system, 
the combination
of an artificial neural network along with a fuzzy logic system or other
algorithms is considered a hybrid system. In this system, IoT is used for
collecting information and monitoring the field, while artificial

intelligence is used for comprehensive and precise control. Several
studies                                            have highlighted the importance of hybrid 
systems compared to
single control systems. The hybrid system has been investigated in

reservoir operation (Deka & Chandramouli, 2009), pan daily
evaporation                                       modeling (Kişi, 2006), soil moisture prediction 
(Tseng et


al., 2018), and other irrigation planning and operation procedures.
Moghaddamnia et al. (2009) studied the estimation of
evapotranspiration using an artificial neural network and adaptive

fuzzy logic system and found that this system produced much better
results                                             than empirical formulas. Similarly, Falamarzi 
et al. (2014)

estimated evapotranspiration using temperature and wind speed data
as                                             inputs using an artificial neural network and 
wavelength neural

network, and the results showed that both algorithms predict
evapotranspiration                                             at an acceptable accuracy level. 
This system is

employed both in indoor and outdoor cultivation systems. Wang et al.
(2017) estimated the leaf area index inside a greenhouse with a

combined backpropagation neural network, genetic algorithm and
autoregressive exogenous model, and concluded that the estimation of
transpiration under indoor conditions provides better results than

those under outdoor conditions.

4.2.2 Indoor Precision Watering Management

Indoor agriculture has been widely practiced due to the advantages of

off-season production and water use efficiency, as well as the possibility
of                                         providing plants with ideal growth conditions. These 
advantages are
because microclimate parameters, including temperature, humidity,

light intensity, carbon dioxide, and soil moisture contents, which exert

tremendous effects on plant growth and yields, can be controlled under
indoor conditions (de Pascale et al., 2019), making indoor farming very
important. In indoor farming, high-value crops such as vegetables are
usually produced since they will exhibit maximum yields and outcomes
in these environments.

Proper watering management is one of the key factors for optimal
production and increasing water use efficiency since these

environments have no rainfall, and irrigation is the only water source.
Excessive application of water results in NO₃ leaching (Incrocci et al.,

2020), while underwatering leads to decreased yields. Considering the
shortage                                                 of water, growers should employ approaches 
where water loss
is minimized while the production level is maximized. However,

growers usually apply water based on their past experiences. To this


end, the adoption of science-based watering scheduling methods that
increase water productivity is pivotal. Furthermore, employing these
methods enables growers to obtain real-time data on the moisture

content and plant water status and perform the watering operations
accordingly.                                                The timing/frequency and quantity of 
water to be applied
are determined through the watering scheduling process. This process
affects plant water productivity, plant yields, and quantity. Over the last
few years, different methods for watering scheduling have been

developed and practiced around the world. Of which, watering based on
the soil moisture content and plant water status has been widely
practiced and highlighted in several studies. The integration of IoT with
the aforementioned methods further facilitates the watering operation
in which monitoring the soil moisture content or plant water status and
applying water are conducted remotely. In this type of system, the

water application and moisture content are monitored and controlled
using                                            sensors.

4.2.2.1 Soil Moisture-Based Scheduling

In this method, the soil moisture content or soil matric potential are
monitored. The properties of soil are monitored using sensors. Sensors
that measure the volumetric water content or dielectric properties of
soil are widely employed because of their low cost and ease of

operation.

The advent of new and inexpensive sensors further facilitated the
monitoring of the soil moisture content and deployment of more
sensors in agriculture. The soil moisture sensor senses the volumetric
water content in the soil, while the other type is called the matric
potential sensor, which senses the matric potential of the soil. Both

types of sensors are used worldwide (Van Iersel et al., 2013). The

volumetric soil moisture sensors measure the water content based on
volume, while the soil matric potential sensors measure how easily the
water is extracted by the plant. Volumetric soil moisture sensors have
the potential to provide growers with information on how much water
and when to apply it to plants. The soil matric potential sensors
measure the availability of water in the soil but do not provide


information on how much water should be applied; they are also
reliable sensors (Thompson et al., 2007).

The soil matric potential may differ for different crops and in
various regions due to soil texture and crop characteristics. For
instance,                                                  in clay soil, matric potentials of −30 
and −40 kPa were used as
thresholds and compared with the −10 kPa threshold, resulting in 35%
and 45% water savings, respectively, especially in tomatoes and

cucumbers (Nikolaou et al., 2019). IoT-based systems facilitate
watering                                      operations since most of the monitoring and control is
performed using soil moisture sensors.

These sensors usually have high accuracy, and the reading error
ranges                                               from ±1% to ±5%. Some researchers suggest that 
depending on
sensors alone is not a wise method for watering scheduling. However,

the sensor accuracy can be increased by performing in situ calibration
and                                        employing outlier removal techniques such as MZscor, 
GESD, Zscor,
and Chauvenet. Using real soil moisture data, 90.4% water savings have
been achieved, while 89.3% water savings have been achieved by
applying MZscore and Zscore to the soil moisture data (Campos et al.,

2020).

The application of an IoT-based system additionally enhances
agricultural                                          outcomes. Lichtenberg et al. (2013) 
investigated wireless
sensors in greenhouse and nursery environments, where the time of
production and crop loss decreased by half or more. As shown in Fig.

4.3, different wired or wireless sensors are deployed in the greenhouse,
where                                                they sense the moisture content in the soil or 
monitor the plant
water status and send the information to the microcontroller, which is

then forwarded to the cloud server (Fig. 4.4). For carrying the watering
operation, a threshold should be defined, in which it triggers the system
when to start watering and when to stop watering. Technologies such
as LoRa, NB-IoT, Bluetooth, ZigBee, and Wi-Fi communication systems
are employed in indoor cultivation. The general flowchart of this
method is presented in Fig. 4.5.


Fig. 4.3 Layout of a typical greenhouse IoT-based irrigation system

Fig. 4.4 Scheme of real-time data handling in the cloud server



Fig. 4.5 IoT-based watering management flowchart

4.2.2.2 Plant Water Status-Based Scheduling

Monitoring the plant water status is another key method of applying
water                                               in greenhouses or protected agriculture. Plant 
physiology or

traits such as the stem diameter, amount of transpiration, leaf water
potential,                                                leaf thickness, canopy temperature, and 
crop reflectance have
been widely used as indices for watering scheduling. Among these

traits, canopy temperature has been researched and implemented
mostly                                         indoors and outdoors due to its low cost and easy 
installation.
Various sensors are deployed to monitor each of these properties. For
example, sap flow sensors for measuring crop transpiration, ZIM

probes for measuring the turgidity of leaves, and infrared temperature
sensors for monitoring canopy temperature have been used. In the case
of canopy temperature measurements, the difference between the

climate inside the canopy of the plant and the atmosphere is usually

considered. Plants transpire water from stomata in the leaves, and this
process influences the canopy temperature. Whenever plants do not
experience water stress, the temperature inside the canopy will be

lower, while the stomata will close under conditions in which plants
experience water stress, and the temperature inside the canopy may
increase. Generally, the plant water status-based method does not

directly provide information on plant water requirements; therefore, it
should be used in combination with other methods, such as the soil
moisture-based method. Prenger et al. (2005) developed an irrigation
system using plant canopy temperature as a method for turning the
irrigation system on or off, while an ET model was developed for the
purpose of determining how much water to apply. The IoT-based or
automation of this method has proven to be more efficient in terms of
water savings. Seelig et al. (2012) used leaf thickness as a watering
scheduling tool and saved 25–45% of water with an automated
irrigation system.

4.2.3 Outdoor Precision Irrigation Management

In outdoor environments, the source of water may be irrigation/rainfall
or                                          capillary rise, while in the greenhouse, irrigation is 
the main water


source for meeting crop water requirements since there is no rainfall.
Water                                                  is added to the soil through irrigation, 
rainfall, or capillary rise,
which originates from groundwater, especially in areas where the water
table is not deep (Fig. 4.6).

Fig. 4.6 Water cycle in the atmosphere

Some proportion of the added water will evaporate from the soil
surface or transpire from the plant surface, while the remaining

proportion will infiltrate into the soil, among which parts of the
infiltrated water join the ground water through a deep percolation
process and the remaining water will move into the horizontal

direction (percolation) to be either absorbed by plant roots or retained
in                                                the soil pores. Runoff is also common in some 
irrigation schemes,
where the water is lost from the soil surface in the form of running
water and leaches soil nutrients, creating small ditches. Irrigation
management, especially in arid and semiarid regions where rainfall
does not replenish plant water requirement, is the key to agricultural
production. Therefore, precise management of irrigation in agriculture
by employing low-cost technologies by which water is managed as

effectively as possible is essential for food security and meeting global


food demands. Various approaches for saving water have been

employed, including mulches, deficit irrigation and drip and sprinkler
irrigation systems. However, these methods have been recognized to
require extensive labor, a large volume of water and a significant

amount of economic input. IoT-based irrigation systems have been used
with minimum labor and water requirements to overcome the

aforementioned problems.

4.2.3.1 IoT-Based Irrigation Scheduling

Irrigation scheduling is the approach by which irrigation managers
understand                                                how much and when to apply water to help 
save a
significant proportion of water. Three methods for irrigation scheduling
have been developed, plant water status-based, soil moisture-based,
and weather-based, each of which can be employed at specific times
and under specific conditions (Fig. 4.7).

Fig. 4.7 IoT-based irrigation scheduling methods

The use of each method varies based on the climate condition, type
of                                              plant, data availability, skills of the researcher, 
accuracy, economic

considerations, and applicability of the approaches. However, the


combination of all these methods is usually recommended to carry out
irrigation operations. In the IoT-based approach, sensors are deployed
to monitor the water content of the soil, plants, and amount of water

lost into atmosphere.

4.2.3.1.1 Soil Moisture-Based Irrigation Scheduling

In this method, irrigation is applied by monitoring the moisture content
or water potential in the soil. As illustrated in Fig. 4.8, plants may
undergo                                               three stages of water conditions in the soil: 
saturation, field

capacity, and permanent wilting point states. Under saturated

conditions, plants wilt due to excess water that they cannot use, while
under                                               field capacity conditions, an ideal amount of 
moisture is present
in the soil, and all of the moisture is available for plant consumption. At
the permanent wilting point level, plants are no longer able to extract
water from the soil, and they may subsequently wilt permanently.

Fig. 4.8 Water availability and soil condition

The application of sensor technologies in irrigation paved the way
for                                             better water management in agriculture 
(Domı́nguez-Niñ o et al.,
2020). This system follows a series of steps. For the first step, a


threshold should be defined where the irrigation operation will be
initiated by comparing data collected from the field with the predefined
threshold.                                              This is usually performed using the water 
balance equation
by which irrigation deficit; which is the proportion of water which

takes the soil back to field capacity, can be calculated.


where SWDt is the soil water deficit for the day t, SWDt−1 is the soil

(4.1)

water deficit for the previous day of t, ET is the evapotranspiration, Ie is
the effective irrigation, and Pe is the effective rainfall.

After calculating the soil water deficit (SWD) for a given soil under
specific period, then, critical soil water deficit (SWDc) should be

determined which is the threshold.

(4.2)

where SWDc is the critical water deficit, Zr is the effective root depth,
PAW is the plant available water, and AD is the allowable depletion.

Several tools and devices for measuring the water content in the soil,
such as gypsum blocks and granular matrix blocks, tensiometers,

neutron probes and sensors. Soil moisture sensors are widely used due
to                                               their low cost and user friendliness. Soil 
capacitive moisture sensors
measure the volumetric water content in the soil, while soil matric
potential sensors measure how easy the water can be extracted by the
plant. Research has indicated that irrigation scheduling based on soil
matric potential in clay soil where tomato and cucumber are being

cultivated may save 35–46% of water (Nikolaou et al., 2019). In another
study, an automatic irrigation system was developed based on soil
moisture and plant temperature sensors and saved 90% of water

compared to conventional irrigation systems (Gutiérrez et al., 2013).

The use of the plant water stress index and soil water methods may

produce similar results both in terms of water savings and yield (Cesari
de                                               Maria et al., 2017).

Buttaro et al. (2015) studied soil water potential as an irrigation
threshold                                            using a tensiometer, which resulted in 35–46% 
water

savings. In China, Liao et al. (2021) developed an automatic irrigation


system using soil moisture sensor for tomato plants inside the
greenhouse and achieved an irrigation water use efficiency of

41.23 kg/m³ compared to 31.58 kg/m³ for the conventional irrigation
system.

As illustrated in Fig. 4.9 sensors are deployed at different locations
in                                               the field where they measure the moisture content 
in the soil and
send the data to the microcontroller. The microcontroller subsequently
turns the water pump on/off based on a predefined threshold. Recently,
a more common approach has been to send data to cloud servers that
store them and allow anyone to access the data later from any location
with an internet connection. Different methods are used to collect and
send data to cloud servers, and the most widely used networks and
methods are presented in Fig. 4.1.

Fig. 4.9 Schematic representation of typical IoT-based irrigation layout

4.2.3.1.2 Weather-Based Irrigation Scheduling


Weather-based methods have also been employed by many irrigation
managers worldwide. They usually require environmental parameters,
including relative air humidity, temperature, solar radiation, wind
speed                                                and rainfall, which exert direct and indirect 
effects on the water
depletion rate from the plant–soil–atmosphere system. These data are
collected by manual/automatic weather stations or metrological

networks in which data are uploaded in a timely fashioned to cloud
servers (Fig. 4.10).

Fig. 4.10 Real-time weather data displayed in the weather cloud server

The use of these data helps growers determine evapotranspiration,
which                                            is the amount of water lost from soil and water, 
as well as plant
surfaces, which is called reference or potential evapotranspiration. In
other words, the approach is associated with a mathematical

calculation to obtain the potential evapotranspiration of the reference
plant                                                or grass, which is then multiplied by the 
specific-crop coefficient


to achieve crop evapotranspiration. The crop coefficient differs in terms
of                                               plant growth stages.

Although the use of all environmental parameters to accurately
achieve                                          potential evapotranspiration is generally 
recommended, some
researchers use a few environmental parameters to calculate reference
evapotranspiration. Hargreaves et al. (1985) utilized only temperature
and extraterrestrial radiation to calculate potential evapotranspiration
(ETo), while Jones and Richard (1990) used temperature and solar
radiation to determine ETo (Eqs. 4.2 and 4.3). The use of limited data
will further facilitate the automatic and real-time monitoring procedure
for determining evapotranspiration.

(4.3)

where ETo is the reference evapotranspiration (mm/day), Tmax and Tmin
are the maximum and minimum temperatures (°C), respectively, and Ra
is the extraterrestrial radiation (MJ m−² day−¹).

(4.4)

where ETo is the reference evapotranspiration, Rs is the solar radiation
(MJ                                              m−²), Tmax is the maximum temperature, and Tmin is 
the minimum
temperature. The most comprehensive method for calculating
evapotranspiration is the FAO-Penman-Monteith method, where

environmental data are used as inputs:

(4.5)

where ETo is the reference evapotranspiration (mm day−¹), Rn is the net
radiation at the crop surface (MJ m−² day−¹), G is the soil heat flux
density (MJ m−² day−¹), T is the mean daily air temperature at a 1.5–2 m
height (°C), u2 is the wind speed at 1.5–2 m height (m s−¹), es is the
saturation vapor pressure (kPa), ea is the actual vapor pressure (kPa),
es − ea is the saturation vapor pressure deficit (kPa), Δ is the slope


vapor pressure curve (kPa °C−¹), and γ is the psychrometric constant
(kPa                                             °C−¹). After the calculation of reference 
evapotranspiration, the

crop-specific coefficient required to obtain the crop evapotranspiration

is determined using the following equation:

(4.6)

where ETc is the crop evapotranspiration, ETo is the reference
evapotranspiration, and KC is the crop coefficient factor. The crop

coefficient factor varies in terms of the types of plants and stages of
growth. Researchers often employ irrigation experiments based on

evapotranspiration, especially in outdoors. This work is conducted for
several reasons, such as greater reliability, feasibility, and ease of
application in advanced and automated research approaches. Goap et
al. (2018) developed an IoT-based irrigation system using the soil
moisture content, air temperature, relative humidity, precipitation, and
UV to frame an algorithm through which irrigation operations are run.

The calculation of evapotranspiration is also performed using the ETo
calculator or CROPWAT software, which were developed by FAO based
on the FAO 65 Penman–Monteith equation. Furthermore, integration
with a microcontroller through programming can help to calculate ETo
automatically.

4.2.3.1.3 Plant-Based Irrigation Scheduling

In plant-based methods, irrigation managers use measurable
physiological                                         plant traits such as canopy temperature, leaf 
water
potential, sap flow, and stem shrinkage to monitor the plant water
status and the time of irrigation. Steppe et al. (2008) successfully
integrated the plant stem and diameter into a mathematical model to
continuously predict apple tree water requirements. The crop water

stress index has also been used by researchers to estimate plant water
requirements by studying canopy-temperature and vapor pressure
deficit relationships and has produced satisfactory results (Steppe et
al., 2008). O’Shaughnessy et al. (2017) investigated the combined
applicability of the plant water stress index and neutron probe readings
to provide solid feedback for irrigation scheduling, especially in arid


regions. This method is sometimes not feasible for monitoring plant
symptoms, where in some cases, it may be too late to recover the plant
from water stress. In plant-based methods, devices usually monitor the
symptoms designated by the plants. Sometimes, it takes a long time
until the plant exhibits any symptoms.

As shown in the study by Cremona et al. (2004), irrigation
scheduling                                             based on the water stress index is quite 
similar to irrigation
scheduling based on the water content both in terms of yield and water
use efficiency. In Spain, the application of automatic irrigation systems
using plant transpiration to irrigate tomato inside the greenhouse

reduced water consumption by 20% (Pawlowski et al., 2017). Irrigation
scheduling for monitoring plants in the greenhouse and in the open
field (Osroosh et al., 2015) has produced good results. De la Rosa et al.
(2015)                                         investigated plant water stress as an irrigation 
base for
scheduling with the intention of increasing water use efficiency and

resulted in 17%, 15%, and 37% water savings in 3 successive years

(2009, 2010, and 2011), respectively. Some researchers used a constant
value                                                 as the irrigation threshold, while others 
used an adaptive
irrigation threshold based on the theoretical crop water stress index

(Osroosh et al., 2015). Gu et al. (2017) developed a new crop water
stress                                           model based on the RZWQM2 scenario, which saved 
30.5%,
17.3%, and 7.1% in low-frequency irrigation, whereas in high-

frequency irrigation, 35%, 30%, and 16% of water was saved in
successive years.

4.3 Discussion

Through an extensive review of outdoor and indoor monitoring, control
and                                            irrigation systems in recent years, IoT- and 
intelligent-based
monitoring systems play a crucial role in increasing water use

efficiency, increasing yields, saving energy and quality production, and
reducing adverse environmental impacts. IoT-based technologies assist
with remote, real-time, and robust monitoring and collection of data to
make the irrigation operation efficient and effective. Deploying

different sensors provides real-time monitoring data that significantly
minimize water loss, enabling better control of the amount of water in


the root zone, plant, and evapotranspiration rate and maintain the
moisture                                             content within an ideal range of growth. The 
other part, which
is intelligent protocols, helps control the irrigation application or

predict plant water requirements for the upcoming hours, days, or
weeks. This system enables growers to achieve on-demand control of

irrigation operations and to predict the future moisture content in the
soil, water status in plants and the proportion of water that will be lost
due to various factors over the coming periods. However, many

challenges remain to be addressed through further studies to ensure
that                                              the systems more cost-beneficial for researchers 
and growers.

Challenges include standardizing the IoT-and intelligent-based system
protocol. More specifically, the system should be user friendly, secure,
require low power consumption (battery-operated), and use

precalibrated sensors. Sometimes both researchers and growers may
find                                                the systems confusing. Regarding security 
problems, for example, if
we consider LoRaWAN technology, connecting the end nodes with the
gateways may sometimes be mixed with or receive nearby LoRa Node
data, and thus the system is unsuitable. In future studies developing

long-range protocols, security issues should be considered.

Calibration is another major challenge that requires in situ
adjustment                                          because it may vary in terms of the soil 
texture and
presence of organic matter. This issue should be the focus of future
studies. On the other hand, through this review, we also found that

most of the technologies are employed in greenhouses rather than open
fields. The abovementioned technologies should also be utilized in

outdoor farming systems.

4.4 Concluding Remarks

Considering the increased food demands and water scarcity, water
management                                             within irrigation systems is the key to 
securing water for
industrial, municipal and daily utilization, as well as meeting world

food demands. Through this review, we realized that precision
irrigation systems are evolving, and their application makes irrigation
management                                          more efficient and convenient. Practicing 
precision
irrigation whenever it is incorporated with IoT where different sensors


are deployed in the field to monitor and collect the data and send them
to                                       microcontrollers and cloud servers further facilitates 
real-time
irrigation monitoring and leads to increased water use efficiency. When
controlling irrigation systems, which is a challenge worldwide, the use
of advanced technologies such as artificial intelligence is important to

take irrigation operations to the next level. An artificial intelligent

control system enables smart control of irrigation operations, which
minimizes water loss. The system will become more comprehensive
and robust when combined with IoT-based irrigation systems,

especially under conditions where the laborers are aging and smart and
remote-control systems are immediately needed. However, further

research is required to devise new instruments with high accuracy and
low cost to make the irrigation operation much more user friendly and
robust.

References

Abioye, E. A., Abidin, M. S. Z., Mahmud, M. S. A., Buyamin, S., Ishak, M. H. I.,

Rahman, M. K. I. A., Otuoze, A. O., Onotu, P., & Ramli, M. S. A. (2020). A review
on monitoring and advanced control strategies for precision irrigation.

Computers and Electronics in Agriculture, 173, 105441. https://doi.org/10.1016/
J.COMPAG.2020.105441

[Crossref]

Adeyemi, O., Grove, I., Peets, S., & Norton, T. (2017). Advanced monitoring and
management systems for improving sustainability in precision irrigation.

Sustainability (Switzerland), 9(3), 353. https://doi.org/10.3390/SU9030353
[Crossref]

Azaza, M., Tanougast, C., Fabrizio, E., & Mami, A. (2016). Smart greenhouse
fuzzy logic based control system enhanced with wireless data monitoring. ISA
Transactions, 61, 297–307. https://doi.org/10.1016/J.ISATRA.2015.12.006
[Crossref][PubMed]

Belaqziz, S., Khabba, S., Er-Raki, S., Jarlan, L., Le Page, M., Kharrou, M. H., El
Adnani, M., & Chehbouni, A. (2013). A new irrigation priority index based on
remote sensing data for assessing the networks irrigation scheduling.

Agricultural Water Management, 119, 1–9.
[Crossref]


Buttaro, D., Santamaria, P., Signore, A., Cantore, V., Boari, F., Montesano, F. F., &
Parente, A. (2015). Irrigation management of greenhouse tomato and
cucumber using tensiometer: Effects on yield, quality and water use.

Agriculture and Agricultural Science Procedia, 4, 440–444. https://doi.org/10.
1016/j.aaspro.2015.03.050

[Crossref]

Campos, N. G. S., Rocha, A. R., Gondim, R., da Silva, T. L. C., & Gomes, D. G.
(2020). Smart & green: An internet-of-things framework for smart irrigation.
Sensors (Switzerland), 20(1), 190. https://doi.org/10.3390/s20010190
[Crossref]

Cesari de Maria, S., Bischetti, G. B., Chiaradia, E. A., Facchi, A., Miniotti, E. F.,
Rienzner, M., Romani, M., Tenni, D., & Gandolfi, C. (2017). The role of water
management and environmental factors on field irrigation requirements and
water productivity of rice. Irrigation Science, 35(1), 11–26.

[Crossref]

Cremona, M. V., Stü tzel, H., & Kage, H. (2004). Irrigation scheduling of kohlrabi
(Brassica oleracea var. gongylodes) using crop water stress index. HortScience,
39(2), 276–279. https://doi.org/10.21273/hortsci.39.2.276

[Crossref]

Croock Al-Janabi, M. S., Hal, A. K., & Khatri, V. (2018). Application of Fuzzy logic
in water irrigation system Related papers Fuzzy based Decision Support Model
for Irrigat ion Syst em Management Application of Fuzzy logic in water
irrigation system. International Research Journal of Engineering and Technology,
5,  3372. Retrieved from www.irjet.net

De la Rosa, J. M., Domingo, R., Gó mez-Montiel, J., & Pérez-Pastor, A. (2015).
Implementing deficit irrigation scheduling through plant water stress
indicators in early nectarine trees. Agricultural Water Management, 152, 207–

216. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.agwat.2015.01.018
[Crossref]

De Pascale, S., Incrocci, L., Massa, D., Rouphael, Y., & Pardossi, A. (2019).
Advances in irrigation management in greenhouse cultivation. In L. Marcelis &

E. Heuvelink (Eds.), Achieving sustainable greenhouse cultivation (pp. 241–284).
Burleigh Dodds Science Publishing. https://doi.org/10.19103/as.2019.0052.
12

[Crossref]


Deka, P. C., & Chandramouli, V. (2009). Fuzzy neural network modeling of
reservoir operation. Journal of Water Resources Planning and Management, 135,

5. https://doi.org/10.1061/ASCE0733-94962009135:15
[Crossref]

Domı́nguez-Niñ o, J. M., Oliver-Manera, J., Girona, J., & Casadesú s, J. (2020).
Differential irrigation scheduling by an automated algorithm of water balance
tuned  by capacitance-type soil moisture sensors. Agricultural Water

Management, 228, 105880. https://doi.org/10.1016/J.AGWAT.2019.105880
[Crossref]

Elaydi, H. (2017). An automated irrigation system for greenhouses. American

Journal of Electrical and Electronic Engineering, 5(2), 48–57. https://doi.org/10.
12691/ajeee-5-2-3

[Crossref]

Falamarzi, Y., Palizdan, N., Huang, Y. F., & Lee, T. S. (2014). Estimating
evapotranspiration from temperature and wind speed data using artificial and
wavelet  neural networks (WNNs). Agricultural Water Management, 140, 26–36.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.agwat.2014.03.014

[Crossref]

Goap, A., Sharma, D., Shukla, A. K., & Rama Krishna, C. (2018). An IoT based
smart irrigation management system using Machine learning and open source
technologies. Computers and Electronics in Agriculture, 155, 41–49. https://doi.
org/10.1016/j.compag.2018.09.040

[Crossref]

Gu, Z., Qi, Z., Ma, L., Gui, D., Xu, J., Fang, Q., Yuan, S., & Feng, G. (2017).

Development of an irrigation scheduling software based on model predicted
crop water stress. Computers and Electronics in Agriculture, 143, 208–221.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.2017.10.023

[Crossref]

Gu, Z., Zhu, T., Jiao, X., Xu, J., & Qi, Z. (2021). Neural network soil moisture
model for irrigation scheduling. Computers and Electronics in Agriculture, 180,
105801. https://doi.org/10.1016/J.COMPAG.2020.105801

[Crossref]

Gutiérrez, J., Villa-Medina, J. F., Nieto-Garibay, A., & Porta-Gándara, M. A' .
(2013). Automated irrigation system using a wireless sensor network and


GPRS module. IEEE Transactions on Instrumentation and Measurement, 63(1),
166–176.

[Crossref]

Hargreaves, G. H., Samani, Z. A., & Abstract, A. (1985). Reference crop
evapotranspiration from temperature. Applied Engineering in Agriculture, 1, 96.
[Crossref]

Hemming, S., de Zwart, F., Elings, A., Righini, I., & Petropoulou, A. (2019).
Remote control of greenhouse vegetable production with artificial intelligence

—Greenhouse climate, irrigation, and crop production. Sensors (Switzerland),
19(8), 1807. https://doi.org/10.3390/s19081807

[Crossref]

Incrocci, L., Thompson, R. B., Fernandez-Fernandez, M. D., de Pascale, S.,
Pardossi, A., Stanghellini, C., Rouphael, Y., & Gallardo, M. (2020). Irrigation
management of European greenhouse vegetable crops. Agricultural Water
Management, 242, 106393. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.agwat.2020.106393
[Crossref]

Khriji, S., el Houssaini, D., Kammoun, I., & Kanoun, O. (2021). Precision
irrigation: An IoT-enabled wireless sensor network for smart irrigation
systems.    In T. Hamrita (Ed.), Women in precision agriculture. Women in
engineering  and science (pp. 107–129). Springer. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-
3-030-49244-1_6

[Crossref]

Kişi, Ö . (2006). Daily pan evaporation modelling using a neuro-fuzzy
computing technique. Journal of Hydrology, 329(3–4), 636–646. https://doi.
org/10.1016/j.jhydrol.2006.03.015

[Crossref]

Kodali, R. K., & Sarjerao, B. S. (2017, July). A low cost smart irrigation system
using MQTT protocol. In 2017 IEEE Region 10 Symposium (TENSYMP) (pp. 1–5).
IEEE.

Krishnan, R. S., Julie, E. G., Robinson, Y. H., Raja, S., Kumar, R., Thong, P. H., &
Son, L. H. (2020). Fuzzy logic based smart irrigation system using internet of
things. Journal of Cleaner Production, 252, 119902. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
jclepro.2019.119902

[Crossref]


Liao, Y., Cao, H. X., Xue, W. K., & Liu, X. (2021). Effects of the combination of
mulching and deficit irrigation on the soil water and heat, growth and
productivity of apples. Agricultural Water Management, 243, 106482.
[Crossref]

Lichtenberg, E., Majsztrik, J., & Saavoss, M. (2013). Profitability of sensor-based
irrigation in greenhouse and nursery crops. HortTechnology, 23, 770.

[Crossref]

Moghaddamnia, A., Ghafari Gousheh, M., Piri, J., Amin, S., & Han, D. (2009).
Evaporation estimation using artificial neural networks and adaptive neuro-
fuzzy inference system techniques. Advances in Water Resources, 32(1), 88–97.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.advwatres.2008.10.005

[Crossref]

Mohamed, E. S., Belal, A. A., Abd-Elmabod, S. K., El-Shirbeny, M. A., Gad, A., &
Zahran, M. B. (2021). Smart farming for improving agricultural management.
The Egyptian Journal of Remote Sensing and Space Science.

Nikolaou, G., Neocleous, D., Katsoulas, N., & Kittas, C. (2019). Irrigation of
greenhouse crops. Horticulturae, 5(1), 7. https://doi.org/10.3390/
horticulturae5010007

[Crossref]

O’Shaughnessy, S. A., Andrade, M. A., & Evett, S. R. (2017). Using an integrated
crop water stress index for irrigation scheduling of two corn hybrids in a semi-
arid region. Irrigation Science, 35(5), 451–467. https://doi.org/10.1007/
s00271-017-0552-x

[Crossref]

Osroosh, Y., Troy Peters, R., Campbell, C. S., & Zhang, Q. (2015). Automatic
irrigation scheduling of apple trees using theoretical crop water stress index
with   an innovative dynamic threshold. Computers and Electronics in Agriculture,
118, 193–203. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.2015.09.006

[Crossref]

Owen, J. S., Jr., Lebude, A. V., Chappell, M., & Hoskins, T. (2016). Advanced
irrigation management for container-grown ornamental crop production.
Virginia Coop. Ext. Hort 218-P. pp 1–18. Retrieved from HORT-218.pdf (vt.edu)


Pacco, H. C. (2022). Simulation of temperature control and irrigation time in
the production of tulips using Fuzzy logic. Procedia Computer Science, 200, 1–12.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.procs.2022.01.199

[Crossref]

Palmer-Jones, R., & Sen, K. (2003). What has luck got to do with it? A regional
analysis of poverty and agricultural growth in rural India. The Journal of

Development Studies, 40(1), 1–31.
[Crossref]

Pawlowski, A., Sánchez-Molina, J. A., Guzmán, J. L., Rodrı́guez, F., & Dormido, S.
(2017). Evaluation of event-based irrigation system control scheme for tomato
crops in greenhouses. Agricultural Water Management, 183, 16–25. https://doi.
org/10.1016/j.agwat.2016.08.008

[Crossref]

Pirkner, M., Dicken, U., & Tanny, J. (2014). Penman-Monteith approaches for
estimating crop evapotranspiration in screenhouses-a case study with table-
grape. International Journal of Biometeorology, 58(5), 725–737. https://doi.org/
10.1007/s00484-013-0653-z

[Crossref][PubMed]

Prenger, J. J., Ling, P. P., Hansen, R. C., Keener, H. M., & Prenger, J. J. (2005). Plant
response-based irrigation control system in a greenhouse: System evaluation.
Transactions of ASAE, 48(3), 1175–1183.

[Crossref]

Seelig, H. D., Stoner, R. J., & Linden, J. C. (2012). Irrigation control of cowpea
plants using the measurement of leaf thickness under greenhouse conditions.
Irrigation Science, 30(4), 247–257. https://doi.org/10.1007/s00271-011-0268-

2

[Crossref]

Selmani, A., Outanoute, M., Oubehar, H., Ed-Dahhak, A., Lachhab, A., Guerbaoui,
M., & Bouchikhi, B. (2019). An embedded solar-powered irrigation system
based on a cascaded fuzzy logic controller. Asian Journal of Control, 21(4), 1941–
1951. https://doi.org/10.1002/asjc.2220

[Crossref]

Sidhu, R. K., Kumar, R., & Rana, P. S. (2020). Machine learning based crop water
demand forecasting using minimum climatological data. Multimedia Tools and


Applications, 79(19), 13109–13124.
[Crossref]

Steppe, K., de Pauw, D. J. W., & Lemeur, R. (2008). A step towards new irrigation
scheduling strategies using plant-based measurements and mathematical
modelling. Irrigation Science, 26(6), 505–517. https://doi.org/10.1007/
s00271-008-0111-6

[Crossref]

Thompson, R. B., Gallardo, M., Valdez, L. C., & Fernández, M. D. (2007). Using
plant water status to define threshold values for irrigation management of
vegetable crops using soil moisture sensors. Agricultural Water Management,
88(1–3), 147–158. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.agwat.2006.10.007

[Crossref]

Trajkovic, S. (2005). Temperature-based approaches for estimating reference
evapotranspiration. Journal of Irrigation and Drainage Engineering, 131, 316.
https://doi.org/10.1061/ASCE0733-94372005131:4316

[Crossref]

Trajkovic, S., Todorovic, B., & Stankovic, M. (2022). Forecasting of reference
evapotranspiration by artificial neural networks. Journal of Irrigation and

Drainage Engineering, 129, 454. https://doi.org/10.1061/ASCE0733-

94372003129:6454

[Crossref]

Tseng, D., Wang, D., Chen, C., Miller, L., Song, W., Viers, J., Vougioukas, S., Carpin,
S., Ojea, J. A., & Goldberg, K. (2018). Towards automating precision irrigation:

Deep learning to infer local soil moisture conditions from synthetic aerial
agricultural images. IEEE. Retrieved from https://github.com/
BerkeleyAutomation/RAPID

Van Iersel, M. W., Chappell, M., & Lea-Cox, J. D. (2013). Sensors for improved
efficiency of irrigation in greenhouse and nursery production. HortTechnology,
12, 735.

[Crossref]

Wang, H., Sánchez-Molina, J. A., Li, M., Berenguel, M., Yang, X. T., & Bienvenido,

J. F. (2017). Leaf area index estimation for a greenhouse transpiration model
using external climate conditions based on genetics algorithms, back-
propagation neural networks and nonlinear autoregressive exogenous models.


Agricultural Water Management, 183, 107–115. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
agwat.2016.11.021

[Crossref]


© The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd. 2023

T. Ahamed (ed.), IoT and AI in Agriculture

https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-19-8113-5_5

5. Strategic Short Note: Artificial

Intelligence and Internet of Things:

Application in Urban Water Management

Martin Anda¹  , Roberta Fornarell¹ and Stewart Dallas¹

(1) Murdoch University, Perth, WA, Australia

Martin Anda

Email: M.Anda@murdoch.edu.au

Abstract

AI and machine learning techniques have already demonstrated
significant                                        outcomes in various water industry applications 
such as
water quality monitoring, chemical dosing, prioritising active leakage
detection areas, intelligent network optimisation, and the prediction of
water pipe failure. Can these techniques be extended from water utility
operations (Anda, 2017) into home and commercial water usage

(Schmack et al., 2019)? The introduction of a reward credit system to
those residents who actively save energy-intensive mains water and
wastewater, whilst optimally managing aquifer recharge, can support
localised, hybrid water sources at residential and community scale

(Fornarelli et al., 2019). While currently, machine-learning algorithms
are                                            being used to detect inaccuracies or anomalies in 
water meter data,
in the future, AI and machine learning techniques can be used to better
manage the use of alternate water sources in cities to achieve
sustainable hybrid water systems (Fornarelli et al., 2021).

Keywords Artificial intelligence – Internet of things – Urban water –
Smart meter – Hybrid water systems – Water trading


5.1 Introduction

AI and machine learning techniques have already demonstrated
significant                                        outcomes in various water industry applications 
such as
water quality monitoring, chemical dosing, prioritising active leakage
detection areas, intelligent network optimisation, and the prediction of
water pipe failure. Can these techniques be extended from water utility
operations (Anda, 2017) into home and commercial water usage

(Schmack et al., 2019)?

The rapid rate of global development in ultrasonic, revenue grade
advanced                                            metering technology is allowing the emergence 
of a new cost-
effective approach to smart urban water management (Haning & Anda,
2016). In particular, it can enable hybrid water systems—those utilising
alternative and non-potable water sources (Byrne et al., 2019)—to be
accurately quantified in a continuous manner without meter fouling.

This in turn paves the way for hybrid water systems to be utilised in
urban water trading—a novel market-based approach to a specified
band                                                 of water use to enable higher levels of water 
efficiency (Fornarelli
et al., 2019).

The introduction of a reward credit system to those residents who
actively save energy-intensive mains water and wastewater, whilst

optimally managing aquifer recharge, can support localised, hybrid
water                                          sources at residential and community scale 
(Fornarelli et al.,

2021). While currently, machine-learning algorithms are being used to
detect inaccuracies or anomalies in water meter data, in the future, AI
and machine learning techniques can be used to better manage the use
of alternate water sources in cities to achieve sustainable hybrid water
systems.

5.2 Methods

Over 60 ultrasonic smart water meters were deployed in 2018–2019
across                                                40 participating households within the City 
of Fremantle, Perth,
Western Australia as part of the RENeW Nexus project (Resilient
Energy and Water Systems) which is a federally-funded initiative being
delivered under the national Smart Cities and Suburbs program


(Fornarelli et al., 2019). The approach adopted for the water

component of RENew Nexus integrates the smart metering of hybrid
water systems, household participation, and data analytics at the

residential scale within the traditional centralised urban water network
(Fornarelli et al., 2021) (Fig. 5.1).

Fig. 5.1  Example of smart metering output (five meters deployed) from a
Fremantle residence maximising alternative water sources

5.3 Results

Since installation, water volume data has been recorded every 30 min
with each meter uploading this data daily via the Telstra NB-IoT

network to a dedicated data management platform. The water usage
data                                               is then analysed and water balance modelling 
undertaken

(Fornarelli et al., 2019). The water balance quantifies the volume of
water                                             used by source (rainwater, groundwater, 
greywater, mains), the


volume of wastewater produced, as well as the amount of local
abstraction                                              and recharge to aquifer. This in turn 
enumerates mains
water savings, reductions in discharge to sewer, and
abstraction/discharge to aquifer for each site (Fornarelli et al., 2021).

5.4 Conclusion

In all the aspects analysed in this paper (e.g., community engagement,
water                                          efficiencies, water value and water tariff), the 
role of digital

technologies in the water sector is vital to assist with the new shift from
centralised water networks to a community-empowered, integrated,

centralised-hybrid water system (Fornarelli et al., 2021).

References

Anda, M. (2017). Decentralised water and energy infrastructure: Integration
into compact urban form. In J. H. P. Bay & S. Lehmann (Eds.), Growing compact:
Urban form, density and sustainability (pp. 204–218). Routledge.

Byrne, J. J., Anda, M., & Ho, G. E. (2019). Water sustainable house: Water
auditing of 3 case studies in Perth, Western Australia. Water Practice &
Technology, 14(2), 435–443. https://doi.org/10.2166/wpt.2019.028
[Crossref]

Fornarelli, R., Anda, M., Dallas, S., & Morrison, G. M. (2021). Smart metering
technology and community participation: Investigating household water usage
and perceived value of hybrid water systems. In Water supply. IWA.

Fornarelli, R., Anda, M., Dallas, S., Schmack, M., Dawood, F., Byrne, J., Morrison,

G. M., & Fox-Reynolds, K. (2019). Enabling residential hybrid water systems
through a water credit-debit system. In Water supply. IWA.

Haning, A., & Anda, M. (2016). The post carbon city and smart metering. In M.
Eissa (Ed.), Smart metering technology and services – Inspirations for energy
utilities (pp. 63–83). InTech. ISBN 978-953-51-2452-8.

Schmack, M., Anda, M., Dallas, S., & Fornarelli, R. (2019). Urban water trading –
Hybrid water systems and niche opportunities in the urban water market – A
literature review. Environmental Technology Reviews, 8(1), 65–81. https://doi.
org/10.1080/21622515.2019.1647292


[Crossref]


© The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd. 2023

T. Ahamed (ed.), IoT and AI in Agriculture

https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-19-8113-5_6

6. Purification of Agricultural Polluted
Water                              Using Solar Distillation and Hot
Water Producing with Continuous

Monitoring Based on IoT

P. D. Kahandage¹, ², Mohammad Hussain Seyar¹, ³, Ryozo Noguchi⁴ and
Tofael Ahamed⁵

(1) Graduate School of Science and Technology, University of Tsukuba,

Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan

(2)  Department of Agricultural Engineering and Soil Science, Faculty
of                                      Agriculture, Rajarata University of Sri Lanka, Mihintale, 
Sri
Lanka

(3) Department of Soil Science and Irrigation, Kabul University, Kabul,

Afghanistan

(4) Laboratory of Agricultural Systems Engineering, Division of
Environmental Science and Technology, Graduate School of
Agriculture, Kyoto University, Kyoto, Japan

(5) Faculty of Life and Environmental Sciences, University of Tsukuba,
Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan

Tofael Ahamed

Email: tofael.ahamed.gp@u.tsukuba.ac.jp

Abstract

Considerable number of people are still suffering from the scarcity of
clean drinking water as most of the available surface water bodies are
already polluted. The difficulty is severe, especially in underdeveloped
countries in which majority is facing for energy crisis as well.

Therefore, when finding the solutions, it is very important to pay


attention for both problems as water purification and management is
always bound with energy. Even though many of household water
purification methods have been invented, solar water distillation is a
simple and affordable for many countries which are blessed with
sufficient solar power and concern on energy. Continuous monitoring
of water quality is an important task of a purification system as the
keeping of quality of water within a recommended range is the main
goal. IoT devises such as sensors, controllers, communication, and

cloud flat forms facilitate the real-time monitoring of water quality and
quick responding remotely with smart phone applications. Most of the
domestic level water purification systems can be more advanced with
IoT technology. Different water quality sensors such as pH sensors,

Temperature sensors, Turbidity sensors, Dissolved Oxygen (DO)
sensors,                                       Conductivity sensors, Salinity sensors, and Total 
Dissolved
Solids (TDS) sensors are available and possible to be controlled by
popular controller types such as Arduino microcontroller board or
Raspberry Pi minicomputer board. This chapter covers the concept of
designing and fabrication of a solar system which can be used for two
purposes as water distillation and hot water producing and controlled
by IoT technology with real time data monitoring. Temperature of the
water and air of the solar still, pH, and TDS of water were measured
using relevant sensors and monitored. The solar still of the system is
also acting as the storage tank by insulating the glass top when the
system is working as a hot water system. The evaporation capacity of
the still were improved by several strategies such as connecting a flat

plate collector, placing sponge cubes in the still and placing a sand layer
under the still. The performance of the solar water distillation system
with each strategy was evaluated separately and the combined effect of
all the strategies was also checked. All the introduced evaporation

enhancement methods have performed well, and the maximum
distillation                                          capacity was 3.98 L/m²/day, and it has been 
achieved when
the system was running with all the strategies together. The maximum
water temperature was also achieved when all the strategies are
deployed, and it was recorded as 58 °C by indicating the potential for
using the system for making hot water for domestic purposes such as


washing and cleaning. The measured water quality parameters show
that                                              the purified water by the system is suitable for 
drinking.

Keywords Continuous monitoring of water quality – Hot water
producing – IoT – Solar water distillation – Water quality

6.1 Introduction

The application of the IoT in water management is an innovative trend
that                                             brings many advantages for both consumers and 
administrators.
Ensuring the availability and sustainable management of water and
sanitation for all is one of the Sustainable development goals (SDGs)
adopted by all United Nations Member States in 2015 to alleviate

poverty and improve livelihood (United Nations, 2020). Water is

recognized as an essential factor for better health and as a key factor in
many sectors, such as poverty reduction, and improved food security,
peace and human rights, ecosystems, and education. However, many
developing countries still face a considerable challenge in finding
sufficient clean water throughout the year for drinking and sanitation
purposes. In many agricultural countries, agricultural pollutants are the
major sources of surface water pollution, especially in rivers and

streams. Additionally, groundwater may be polluted due to the leaching
of                                           pesticides and fertilizers into aquifers. The 
irresponsible overuse of
fertilizers and other agrochemicals in farming areas to enhance yield
accounts for this pollution. Consequently, there is a high concentration
of heavy metal ions such as As, Cd, Cu, and Zn in groundwater. The
accumulation of nutrients in water bodies leads to eutrophication,

threatening aquatic biodiversity by increasing the biological oxygen
demand.                                            Another water-related problem is the hardness of 
the water
due to the presence of calcium and magnesium ions. This occurs when
water percolates over banks of limestone, chalk or gypsum. Although it
is generally safe to drink, the taste is unpleasant due to the excess
minerals.

The total amount of available water on Earth is estimated to be 1.4
billion km³, of which approximately 97.5% is seawater, while only 2.5%
is clean water (Modi & Modi, 2019). As reported by the World Health


Organization, nearly 2.1 billion people do not have access to safe
drinking water, 3.4 million people die each year due to water-related
issues, and millions of women and children spend 3–6 h each day

collecting water from distant water sources, even those that are not in
good condition for consumption (WHO, 2022). Although ensuring

equitable access to clean and affordable water is targeted by the SDGs, a
considerable number of people still do not have access to clean
drinking water and use polluted and unprotected sources without any

treatments for their water requirements. Table 6.1 shows the
accessibility of drinking water for people in 2020 (WHO, 2022).

Table 6.1 Accessibility of people for drinking water in 2020

Water source     Description                             Number of

people


Safely managed
services

Basic services
Limited services

Unprotected
sources

Untreated surface
water

Improved water sources, available anytime, free from
contaminants

Improved water sources, located within a round trip of
30 minutes

Improved water sources, located within a round trip of
more than 30 minutes

From wells and springs

From lakes, ponds, rivers, and streams

5.8 billion

1.2 billion

0.282 billion

0.368 billion

0.122 billion

Treated water services are classified under three categories: safely
managed, basic, and limited services. Safely managed services are

characterized by having drinking water from improved sources on the
premises and available anytime as well as free from fecal and chemical
contaminants. The sources of basic services are almost the same as

those of safely managed services, but they are located within a round
trip                                                of 30 minutes. In limited services, improved 
water sources are

located far away, and collection takes more than 30 minutes.
Contaminated                                        drinking water is a major burden on human 
health, and
there is the greatest risk of waterborne diseases among infants and
young children, weakened people and elderly individuals, especially
when living in unhygienic conditions (Gorchev & Ozolins, 2011).


Therefore, available hard water and contaminated water must be
purified to cater to the water demand in many countries that suffer

from water scarcity. Thus, efficient and sustainable utilization of

existing surface water sources with the support of advanced available
technologies are essential.

The available water purification methods, such as reverse osmosis

(RO) and vapor compression, are not appropriate for domestic levels in
rural areas of developing countries. Water distillation is a purification
method that can remove heavy metals and other impurities from water.

Many tropical countries with sufficient solar energy throughout the
year                                              have a higher likelihood of utilizing free energy 
for distilling both
hard and contaminated water.

Energy is also a word that is always bound together with water
management, as pumping, purification, storage, and delivery depend on
electricity. Ensuring affordable, reliable, and sustainable energy is also
one of the sustainable development goals (United Nations, 2020).

Therefore, promoting the use of solar energy in water management is
highly justifiable, as it provides emission-free, reliable, freely available,
and renewable energy. A solar water distillation unit requires simple
technology, no requirement of highly skilled labor for maintenance

work and low energy consumption; hence, it is a great alternative for
obtaining fresh water from hard water. The most beneficial advantage

of solar energy is low operation and maintenance costs due to zero fuel
cost energy, but it requires more space for its collection and high initial
investments (Tiwari et al., 2003). Nevertheless, it is the best solution

for water purification in remote areas and small communities in dry
zones                                             with a lack of drinking water.

As even low-price sensors allow for easy measurement of water
quality and other parameters and the possibility of using available

communication technologies with few configurations, IoT-based water
purification and management systems can be considered low-cost
solutions, which facilitate distant monitoring and regulation (Singh &
Ahmed, 2020). Therefore, the goal of this chapter is to discuss the
possibilities to use IoT techniques for continuous monitoring and
implementation of decisions in solar water purification and hot water
systems.


6.2 The Architecture of the Proposed IoT-Based
Solar Water Distillation and Hot Water System

The main purpose of this chapter is to discuss the possibility of using
IoT technology in solar water purification and hot water production.

Therefore, the main concept of employing IoT improvement

technologies with the support of recently carried out relevant studies
and                                               the results of evaluating some components of the 
system is
discussed. Figure 6.1 shows the conceptual diagram of the IoT-based
solar water distillation system and hot water system.

Fig. 6.1  Schematic diagram of the solar water distillation unit with IoT devices

The most salient feature of this concept is switching the system
between                                          purification by distillation and hot water 
production based on
the requirements and remotely measured parameters by the sensors.

As the main purpose of this system is purification, it contains a water
basin, solar preheating system, cooling system, distilled water


collection tank, and various sensors for water quality and water level
determination.

In this IoT-based purification and hot water system, distillation with
solar power has been selected as the purification technique so that

obtaining hot water for domestic purposes is also facilitated with solar
power. The flat plate solar collector, which is one of the major

components of a solar water heating system, is suggested to connect
with                                              the solar still of the distillation system to 
increase water
evaporation. The double-sloped water basin is connected to a

continuous supply of water from the source, and the supply is under
control                                             with the support of a flow control valve. The 
water inside the
basin is allowed to flow continuously through the flat plate solar

collector mounted on the outside, increasing its temperature to
facilitate evaporation. This flow is a natural phenomenon that occurs
with only the difference in water density with temperature. The

preheated water in the basin constantly evaporates due to solar heat,
and                                                the evaporated water condenses again by hitting 
the glass cover
above the basin. To facilitate the condensation process, the glass cover
is regularly cooled by the cooling system powered by a pump operating
with solar power, and the distilled water deposited on the glass cover is
freely collected into the distilled water collector with the assistance of
gravity.

In contemplation of switching the system for hot water production,
the glass cover cooling system is shut off and covered by insulation
allowing                                            the water basin to work as a hot water storage 
tank. At the
same time, the basin should be filled with water. The switching process
is expected to monitor the water levels and other parameters of the
system with the support of IoT. The IoT system comprises thermal
sensors and ultrasonic water level sensors, Wi-Fi communication

through a Raspberry Pi minicomputer, and cloud storage controlled by
a                                         smartphone application.

6.3 Basic Architecture of an IoT-Based Water
Purification System


The main components of an IoT-based system are sensors, controllers,
communication systems, and IoT platforms. The main purpose of a
water purification system is to maintain water quality within the purest
range by removing externally accumulated impurities. Therefore,

continuously monitoring the water quality is essential to confirm that
the system is working properly. IoT technology facilitates this

requirement with different water quality sensors. The basic

architecture of the IoT-based water purification system is shown in Fig.
6.2.

Fig. 6.2 Basic architecture of the IoT-based water purification system

The most important water quality parameters to be measured

continuously are pH, temperature, turbidity, dissolved oxygen (DO),

conductivity, salinity, and total dissolved solids (TDS) (Singh & Ahmed,
2020). Table 6.2 gives the information on the water quality parameters,
reference values, and sensors used to measure them.

Table 6.2 Basic water quality parameters of a water purification system and
sensors in use


Water
quality
parameter

pH

Temperature

Turbidity

Dissolved
Oxygen (DO)

Conductivity

Salinity

Total
Dissolved
Solids    (TDS)

Description

Measures the degree of
acidity or basicity of water
using a scale from 0 to 14.
The pH value of normal
water should be 7
indicating the neutrality

An important factor for
growth of organisms (ex.
legionella) in water

Turbidity is the criterion
that determines the clarity
of water. It is measured by
Formazin Nephelometric
Unit (FTU) and
Nephelometric Turbidity
Unit (NTU)

Amount of gaseous oxygen
present in water

Measures the capability of
water to pass a flow of
electric current. It gives an
idea about how much of
substances, chemicals, and
minerals are in the water

Measures how much of salt
is dissolved in water

TDS is the total amount of
organic and inorganic
substances present in the
water

Recommended
value/range for
drinking water

6.5–8.5

20–50 °C

Most preferable

−30 °C

Less than 5 NTU

6.5–8.0 mg/L

400 μS/cm

Less than 200 ppm

500 mg/L

Sensors used

pH sensors

Ex: Combination pH sensors,
differential pH sensors,
laboratory  pH sensors, process
pH sensors

Temperature sensors

Ex: Thermocouples, resistive
temperature devices (RTDs,
thermistors), infrared
radiators, bimetallic devices,
liquid expansion devices,
molecular change of state
devices, silicon diodes

Turbidity sensors

Ex: Nephelometric sensors,
suspended solid sensors,
absorption sensors

Dissolved oxygen sensors
Water conductivity sensors

Salinity sensors

Ex: Electrode sensors,
inductive sensors

TDS sensors

As several possible communication systems, controllers, and IoT flat
forms are available, and they can be selected considering the

requirements.


The Arduino microcontroller board or Raspberry Pi minicomputer
controller                                                is preferable in this system as the 
controller. External
hardware is required to connect to the internet when an Arduino
microcontroller board is used.

6.4 Water Purification Methods and the Possibility
of Using IoT

Water purification is the process of removing contaminants from raw
water to make it suitable for drinking. Dirt, parasites, bacteria, algae,
viruses,                                             fungi, and minerals, including heavy metals, 
are removed from
the water during the purification process. Boiling, chlorination,
filtration, coagulation and sedimentation, ion exchange, solar

treatments, distillation, and combined treatment systems are some of
the small-scale purification methods in use at the domestic level

(Agrawal & Bhalwar, 2009).

The boiling point of water is 100 °C at sea level and is highly

influenced by the surrounding pressure. A vast range of waterborne
pathogens                                                is vulnerable to destruction when water is 
boiled. However,
during the pasteurization process, heating to 60 °C for 10 min also
destroys most of the waterborne pathogens.

Therefore, heating the water to the desired level and maintaining it
for a considerable duration can minimize the energy utilization for
boiling. Therefore, there is good potential for using IoT techniques to
monitor the temperature and duration of a water heating system to

control the use of energy and maintain water quality.

Chlorination is the most affordable and easy water purification
method,                                       especially when a large quantity of water is 
purified. In this
process, a measured amount of chlorine (Cl) or chlorine compounds,
such as sodium hypochlorite, is added to water and allows for a
specified contact time (30 min) to destroy pathogens such as bacteria,
viruses, and cysts. As the lethal effect of chlorine is determined by pH,
temperature, and contact time, IoT technology can be applied to
monitor these parameters in real-time (WaterProfessionals, 2022).

Filtration is a physical method of eradicating suspended particles,
some                                         pathogens, and algae from water to make the water 
safer and


cleaner. Sand, charcoal, membrane, and ceramic filters are used to filter
the water. Although the lifetime of a filter is determined by several
factors,                                               the total volume of the water filtered and 
the level of impurity
of the water are major determinants of the lifetime. Therefore, sensors
and IoT devices can be deployed to monitor filters.

In both coagulation and sedimentation methods, separation of
suspended solid particles is anticipated. Coagulation is the
phenomenon that increases the particle size of solid particles by

combining them and allowing them to accumulate on the bottom of the
tank. In sedimentation, solid particles are supposed to settle on the
bottom of the tank due to their weight. Allum potash is one of the

coagulation agents that can be effectively used to control cholera (Khan
et                                                 al., 1984). As this process is time-consuming 
and excess coagulant
agent gives the water an unpleasant taste, water quality sensors can be
used to determine the exact quantity of required coagulant, and IoT
devices can be used to provide coagulant precisely and on time.

Ion exchange is one of the most effective technologies to remove
dissolved inorganic ions. In this process, ionic contaminants are

removed from water using another tolerable ionic substance. This
method                                               has been widely used to remove the water 
hardness due to the
presence of Ca and Mg ions. As regular maintenance and cleaning are

essential for ion exchange purification systems, IoT technology can be
used to monitor and determine the required maintenance (Mazille,

2020).

In combined treatment systems, two or more purification methods
discussed                                              above are combined.

6.5 Solar Water Distillation and Potential for
Improvement with the Latest Innovations

Nature utilizes solar energy to convert saline water into freshwater by
heating water from oceans, lakes, rivers, and other large bodies of
water in the hydrologic cycle. Vapors are generated by increasing the
temperature of water transported by wind to distant places, which

condense and precipitate in the form of rain. This natural phenomenon
can                                                 be achieved in an artificially constructed 
system, and condensed


water can be collected easily for day-to-day uses (Sanserwal et al.,
2020). Solar distillation is a promising and alternative method to
supply water for small communities in rural areas. The major

component of a solar water distillation system is the solar still, which
contains water for distillation and provides conditions to absorb solar

energy to make water vapor for desalination. The black paint inside the
solar still improves the solar energy absorption, and the glass top

(transparent cover) of the solar still allows the short wavelength of
sunlight to enter the solar still while blocking the longwave infrared
radiation reflected by the water surface, consequently increasing the
temperature inside the solar still. The transmitted radiation into the

solar still is partially reflected and absorbed by the water, increasing its
temperature compared to the glass top. The absorbed radiation finally
reaches the black painted surface, generally known as the basin inside

layer, where it is largely absorbed. Then, most of the thermal energy is
transmitted to the water, and a small quantity may be lost to the
atmosphere by conduction. Due to this, the temperature difference
between the water and glass top is increased. Therefore, transferring
heat from water to the glass top commences via three modes of heat

transfer, radiation, convection, and evaporation from the water surface.
The evaporated water is deposited on the inner surface of the glass top
and                                                is condensed after releasing the latent heat. 
The condensed water
stream into the collecting pipes is provided at the lower ends of the

glass top under gravity. The collected water is distilled water and ready
for                                             further use. The thermal energy received by the 
glass cover, through
radiation, convection, and latent heat, is lost to the ambient

environment by radiation and convection (Tiwari et al., 2003). A

perforated tube can be used to provide water flow on the upper surface
of                                                the glass top to accelerate the cooling process 
of the glass top to
accelerate the evaporation process inside the solar still. Figure 6.3
shows two types of solar stills, a single slope and a double slope, with

their basic functions.


Fig. 6.3  (a) Single-slope and (b) double-slope solar stills

When the glass top of the solar still is inclined on one side, as shown
in                                                Fig. 6.3a.The solar still is known as a 
single-slope solar still. As
shown in Fig. 6.3b, the glass top of the double-slope solar still is
inclined on two opposite sides. When a solar tracking mechanism is not
available, the single-slope stills are more efficient in one-half of the day,
while the double-slope stills show fairly constant efficiency throughout
the day.

6.5.1 Active and Passive Solar Distillation

Based on solar energy utilization, solar distillation units or solar stills

can be classified into two categories: active solar stills and passive solar
stills. In passive solar stills, only the solar energy directly falling into the
solar still contributes to water evaporation. In an active solar still, an

external apparatus such as a flat plate solar collector, an inverted
absorber,                                               or an additional condenser is connected to 
the solar still to
harness additional solar energy so that a faster rate of evaporation is
assured compared to the active solar stills (Ansari et al., 2013). As
shown by Alawee et al. (2021), the external heating process of active
solar stills can be accomplished by using a flat plate collector, solar

concentrator, heat pipes and mini solar ponds. In passive solar stills, the
solar energy can be effectively harnessed to increase the basin water

temperature using internal and external reflectors that reflect the


sunlight on the absorption plate (Alawee et al., 2021). The efficiency
and                                       productivity of both active and passive stills can be 
increased by
increasing the surface area of the solar distillation unit (Refalo et al.,
2016). As shown by Aziz et al. (2017), several factors, such as solar

intensity, wind velocity, ambient temperature, water-glass temperature
difference,                                               free water surface area, absorber plate 
area, glass angle,
depth of water, and temperature of inlet water, affect the productivity of
a solar still (Arunkumar et al., 2019a; Aziz et al., 2017). Figure 6.4
shows the schematic diagrams of active and passive solar stills.

Fig. 6.4  (a) Active single-slope solar still and (b) passive single-slope solar
still

Solar stills can be classified based on design and configurations as
basin type, wick type, and special design such as hemispherical,
spherical, concave, v shape, tubular conical, and pyramid type. The
performance of these systems is determined by their design,

elementary setup, and materials used to fabricate the distillation
system                                      (Sanserwal et al., 2020).


6.5.2 Possible Innovations to Improve Vapor Generation in
Solar Stills

The solar water distillation method is not popular as it is highly
uneconomical                                            because the distillation capacity of a 
simple basic solar
still is very low, between 2 and 5 L/m²/day (Manokar et al., 2018;

Murugavel et al., 2010). Several studies have been conducted to

improve the efficiency of vapor generation in solar stills concerning a
higher output of distillation (more than 5 L/day). Experiments have
shown that the use of solar concentrators internally and externally can
increase evaporation in solar stills. Plain mirrors and parabolic

reflectors can be used here to concentrate solar energy to improve
productivity                                             (Dev et al., 2011). Another method to 
improve a solar
distillation system is using phase change material to store additional

heat in the still. Here, different phase change materials, which can store
heat                                                 as latent heat, can be applied. Paraffin wax 
and nanoparticle-

enhanced paraffin are mostly used as latent heat storage materials
(Kabeel                                              & Abdelgaied, 2016).

In addition to latent heat storage, sensible heat storage materials
can                                             also be used in solar stills to increase 
productivity. Fins, sand,
sponges, marbles, pebbles, iron scrap, wicks, charcoal, corrugated
absorbers, black cotton, jute, clay, mild steel, and black gravel granite
are used for sensible heat storage (Arunkumar et al., 2019b). Several
studies have shown that the use of nanofluids in solar stills helps to
increase evaporation. Mixing nanoparticles of Al2O3 and Cu2O in
wastewater still results in a significant improvement in distillation

capacity (Omara et al., 2015).

Heat absorbing materials such as PV panels, black cotton and jute

can be used as a higher heat-gaining material in solar stills to achieve a
higher distillation (Manokar et al., 2018; Pal et al., 2017). Several
studies have been carried out by changing the design of the solar still to
improve productivity. Among them, one study has shown that stepped-
type solar stills can increase the absorbing area to improve the
distillation output (Abdullah, 2013). Air blowers can be used to create a
bubbling effect in the still to increase the evaporation rate by
distributing heat energy equally throughout the basin (Joy et al., 2018).


A condenser can be installed to improve the condensation process to
accelerate distillation. A bank of tubes immersed in flowing fresh water
is typically used as a condenser in solar stills (Refalo et al., 2016). One
study, which was conducted by integrating a compression heat pump
with a solar still in such a way that immersing the condenser in water
and installing the evaporator in the air of the still to provide two

sources of heat and two places for condensation, considerably
improved                                          the distillation capacity (Ben Halima et al., 
2014).

6.6 Solar Water Heating Systems and Data
Monitoring

Solar hot water systems or thermal systems have been designed
specifically to harness the heat energy of the sun and transfer it to
water  to increase the temperature and store the warm water in an
insulated                                           tank while permitting the water to circulate 
through the
system until it reaches the desired temperature. Waterflow can

naturally occur due to the phenomenon of the water density changing
with temperature or otherwise controlling the flow forcefully with the
support                                                of a pump. When a pump is in operation in 
the system,
photovoltaic electricity from a solar panel is a good option to provide
power for both the pump and the controlling system. Unlike using a

natural flow system, when a controlled system is used, it is

exceptionally easy to maintain the preferred water temperature by
monitoring the system parameters with the assistance of thermal and
flow sensors. Figure 6.5 gives a schematic illustration of a solar hot
water system.


Fig. 6.5 A schematic diagram of a simple solar water heating system

Two types of solar water heating collectors can be used in this
system: evacuated tubes and flat plate collectors. Evacuated tubes are a
bank of glass tubes mounted on a frame, and flat plate collectors are a
bank                                              of glass or metal tubes installed in an insulated 
absorbing box
with a transparent top.

The day’s solar intensity, ambient temperature, water temperatures
at                                              the lower and upper parts of the tank, lower and 
upper ends of the


flat plate collector, and the outlet are important parameters to check
regularly. Temperature sensors can be used to monitor the important
temperature values in the system. Figure 6.6 shows how continuous
data monitoring of a solar water heating system with IoT technology
can be used to control the temperature of water output.

Fig. 6.6  Connection of sensors and IoT devices to control the temperature of
output water of a solar water heating system

6.7 IoT-Based Solar Water Distillation and Hot Water
System

6.7.1 Study Conducted to Test the Performance of Solar
Stills Under Different Improvement Strategies

The solar water distillation system comprised several units, such as a
solar still or basin on a sand layer to store and evaporate water, a


cooling system for condensation of distilled water, a flat plate solar

collector to preheat the water, and a frame to carry all the components
together.                                            Materials were selected for fabricating each 
component based
on the designed factors, such as simplicity, reliability, and stability. The
basin was 0.072 m³ in capacity with a 0.5 m² effective evaporation area
and was composed of a double-sloped glass top and a water supply pipe
with a floater valve. All the surfaces of the basin were fabricated with
stainless steel and painted black for higher absorption of a large
amount of solar radiation and very low transmissivity of solar energy.

The sidewalls of the basin were insulated with 50 mm extended
polystyrene to obtain the advantages of sensible heat storage (Abu-
Hijleh                                                & Rababah, 2003). Sponge cubes with 
dimensions of

60 mm × 60 mm × 30 mm were placed in the basin water to increase
the wetted surface area and reduce the water surface tension. A river

sand layer with a height of 2 cm was incorporated under the solar still
to                                              store the additional heat. A cooling system was 
installed to support
the condensing process. The flat plate solar collector, which comprises

a bank of copper tubes, was designed to increase the temperature of the
basin water by preheating to increase the rate of distillation. Figure 6.7
shows a schematic diagram of the solar still with all the new features
and sensors.


Fig. 6.7  Schematic diagram of the solar water distillation system with
improved features

Plates 6.1, 6.2, and 6.3 show how sponge cubes, flat plate collectors,
and                                               sand layers have been set in the distillation 
system.


Plate 6.1 Arrangement of sponge cubes in the solar still


Plate 6.2 Connection of flat plate collector with solar still


Plate 6.3 Laying of a sand layer under the solar still

6.7.2 Performance Evaluation of the Solar Still

The solar still performance was evaluated under five conditions to
estimate the contribution of each introduced feature separately.

In this study, only the passive solar still without a flat plate collector,
sponge cubes and sand layer was considered as T1. The solar still with
only the flat plate solar collector was considered T2. The solar still with
only the sand layer was considered T3. The solar still with only sponge
cubes was taken as T4, and the solar still with all the features of flat
plate collector, sand layer and sponge cubes was considered as T5.


The total average distilled output, maximum and average air
temperatures of the solar still, maximum and average water

temperature of the solar still, and increase percentage of each
treatment compared to T1 are demonstrated in Table 6.3.

Table 6.3 Air temperature, water temperature, distilled output, and
improvement percentage


Treatment

T1
T2
T3
T4
T5

Water
temperature (°C)

Max.  Average

48.0  38.85

58.6  45.50

52.6  41.10

49.5  48.60

58.3  43.60

Air temperature
(°C)

Max.  Average

51.6  40.80

61.6  48.10

54.6  41.45

55.3  42.20

64.3  46.30

Total distilled
output (L/m2/day)

1.67

2.87

2.01

2.47

3.98

Improvement
percentage (%)

–
72.9

19.9

48.2

138.3

Both basin air and basin water temperatures increased to the
maximum just after noon because the absorption of heat was higher
than the losses to the atmosphere. In the early hours of the morning,
the difference in glass temperature and the water temperature was
smaller, which caused lower productivity. This is because of the small

amount of energy absorbed by the water during these periods. Figure

6.8 shows the variation in the distilled output of all the treatments
throughout                                             the day.


Fig. 6.8 Variation in the distilled output throughout the day

The highest output value and temperature values were observed in
T5. Since the flat plate solar collector more efficiently absorbs heat than
the solar still, the basin water temperature markedly increased, giving a
higher production. When the sand bed was incorporated under the
metal solar still, it absorbed heat energy from water so that the water
and air temperatures inside the solar still decreased, resulting in lower
production in the morning. However, during the afternoon period, the
sand bed retained more heat energy due to its high thermal capacity.

Therefore, during the afternoon period, the distilled output and air and
water temperatures increased more conspicuously than during the
morning period. In T3, the height of the sponge cubes exposed above

the water surface was 1 cm. Abu-Hijleh & Rababah (2003) showed that
at                                             shorter exposure heights, more water rose to the top 
of the sponge
by capillary forces, thus increasing the evaporation rate of the solar
still. Applying sponge cubes increased the wetted surface area for
evaporation and reduced the surface tension between water molecules
with the help of small openings in the sponge cubes; thus, it was easier
for the water molecules to evaporate. The graph in Fig. 6.8 clearly
shows that the distilled output increased in the morning even at low
basin air and water temperatures.


6.7.3 Water Quality Results

Table 6.4 shows the measured pH, EC, and TDS values of water before
and                                               after all the treatments compared to the 
laboratory distilled water.

Table 6.4 pH, EC, and TDS values of the water with WHO standards


Quality
parameter

pH

EC (μS/cm)
TDS (ppm)

Before
Treatment

7.38

431

207.9

After treatment

T1  T2  T3  T4  T5

6.90 7.06 7.12 7.22 7.21

8.17 7.22 6.69 6.60 7.01

3.47 3.41 3.22 3.19 3.43

Laboratory
distilled water

7.66

1.41

0.61

WHO

standard

6.5–8.5

Max. 750

Max. 500

As the water used for the experiment was obtained from the public
water                                             supply, all the water quality parameters of the 
water before

treatments were within the standard range recommended by the World
Health Organization (WHO). According to the water quality results, the
initial EC and TDS values of water considerably decreased by solar
water distillation, but they were still within the recommended range.

Therefore, this improved solar water distillation system can also be
used for highly polluted water.

Several studies based on the application of IoT in water purification
were                                             carried out with different IoT devices. Table 6.5 
shows some of

the previous studies related to this study and IoT devices that were
used                                              in those studies along with major findings.

Table 6.5 Studies on IoT based water purification systems


Study

IoT-based performance
analysis of hybrid solar
heater-double slope
solar    still (Benghanem et
al., 2022)

Purification
method

Solar distillation

IoT devices

Sensors—
Temperature,
Humidity,         Water level

Controller—Arduino
Mega

2560

Communication—
WiFi

Findings

Distilled output—
12 L/m2/day

User can easily check
whether the system
works correctly or not


Study

Water Purifier Quality
Monitoring Using IOT
(Deshmukh et al., 2020)

An IoT based Control
System for a Solar
Membrane Distillation
Plant used for
Greenhouse Irrigation
(Gil   et al., 2019)

Cloud and IoT based
smart architecture for
desalination water
treatment (Alshehri et
al., 2021)

Purification
method

UV lamp along
with s reverse
osmosis or carbon
block filters

Solar membrane

Dual nano
membrane
filtration

IoT devices

IoT Platform—
ThingSpeak

Sensors—pH,
Temperature,
Turbidity

Controller—Arduino

Communication—
WiFi

Sensors—
Temperature,
Humidity, Solar
radiation, CO2
concentration

Controller—MPC

Communication—
WiFi

IoT Platform—Orion

Sensors—Water level,
pH, Turbidity,
Conductivity

Controller—
Raspberry Pi

Communication—
WiFi

Findings

Water qualities are
monitored real time and
updated to the authorized
person

Development of a model
predictive control
strategy in combination
with an IoT platform and
a smart grid framework

The desalination capacity
was 0.47 m3/l of
freshwater from a saline
concentration of 10 g/l, at

8.31 KWh/m3

6.8 Conclusions

Solar water distillation can be used efficiently for small-scale water
purification for drinking. There is considerable potential for using IoT
technology                                                in many water purification methods to 
save energy and
increase efficiency by reducing human involvement. There is a
possibility to integrate solar water distillation and solar water heating
systems, as the essential components and requirements of both

systems are interchangeable. In the conducted experiment, all the
evaporation                                         enhancement strategies introduced for the 
distillation unit
contributed to increasing the distilled capacity of the system. The


distilled production of the newly designed distillation unit of 0.5 m²
increased by 138% with the combined effect of the sand layer, flat plate
solar collector, and sponge cubes. The flat plate solar collector is
suitable for increasing basin water temperature and basin air

temperature. The calculated improvement of the flat plate solar

collector over the passive solar still type was 72.9%. The river sand

layer can store more heat energy during the morning period due to its
high thermal capacity and release during the afternoon period. The

efficiency of the distilled output increased by 48.2% when sponge

cubes were incorporated into the solar still because the area for water
evaporation increased and the surface tension of the water molecules
was reduced. The total average daily production of the improved solar
water distillation unit was 3.98 L/m²/day. The production increased by
increasing the area of the basin according to the requirement. The
distilled output has safe pH, EC, and TDS levels so it is suitable for
drinking purposes.

References

Abdullah, A. S. (2013). Improving the performance of stepped solar still.
Desalination, 319, 60–65. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.desal.2013.04.003
[Crossref]

Abu-Hijleh, B. A., & Rababah, H. (2003). Experimental study of a solar still with
sponge cubes in basin. Energy Conversion and Management, 44, 1411–1418.
[Crossref]

Agrawal, V. K., & Bhalwar, R. (2009). Household water purification: Low-cost
interventions. Medical Journal Armed Forces India, 65(3), 260–263. https://doi.
org/10.1016/S0377-1237(09)80019-1

[Crossref]

Alawee, W. H., Mohammed, S. A., Dhahad, H. A., Essa, F. A., Omara, Z. M., &
Abdullah, A. S. (2021). Performance analysis of a double-slope solar still with
elevated basin — Comprehensive study. Desalination and Water Treatment, 223,
13–25. https://doi.org/10.5004/dwt.2021.27125

[Crossref]


Alshehri, M., Bhardwaj, A., Kumar, M., Mishra, S., & Gyani, J. (2021). Cloud and
IoT based smart architecture for desalination water treatment. Environmental
Research, 195, 110812. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.envres.2021.110812
[Crossref][PubMed]

Ansari, O., Asbik, M., Bah, A., Arbaoui, A., & Khmou, A. (2013). Desalination of
the brackish water using a passive solar still with a heat energy storage system.
Desalination, 324, 10–20. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.desal.2013.05.017
[Crossref]

Arunkumar, T., Ao, Y., Luo, Z., Zhang, L., Li, J., Denkenberger, D., & Wang, J.
(2019a). Energy efficient materials for solar water distillation - A review.
Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews, 115, 109409. https://doi.org/10.
1016/j.rser.2019.109409

[Crossref]

Arunkumar, T., Raj, K., Rufuss, D. D. W., Denkenberger, D., Tingting, G., Xuan, L.,
& Velraj, R. (2019b). A review of e ffi cient high productivity solar stills.

Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews, 101, 197–220. https://doi.org/10.
1016/j.rser.2018.11.013

[Crossref]

Aziz, S. N. S., El-Hadad, O., Rahim, S. A., & Chew, F. N. (2017). Solar still;
unrevealed facts and reasons causing its low productivity. Journal of

Engineering Research, 5(1), 181–199.

Ben Halima, H., Frikha, N., & Ben Slama, R. (2014). Numerical investigation of a
simple solar still coupled to a compression heat pump. Desalination, 337(1),
60–66. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.desal.2014.01.010

[Crossref]

Benghanem, M., Mellit, A., & Emad, M. (2022). IoT-based performance analysis
of hybrid solar heater-double slope solar still. Water Supply, 22(3), 3027–3043.
https://doi.org/10.2166/WS.2021.414

[Crossref]

Deshmukh, T., Lokhande, H. N., Raj, M., & Sadegaonkar, R. (2020). Real time
internet of things (IoT) based water quality. International Journal of Innovative
Research in Technology, 7(2), 78–83.


Dev, R., Abdul-Wahab, S. A., & Tiwari, G. N. (2011). Performance study of the
inverted absorber solar still with water depth and total dissolved solid. Applied
Energy, 88(1), 252–264. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apenergy.2010.08.001
[Crossref]

Gil, J. D., Munoz, M., Roca, L., Rodriguez, F., & Berenguel, M. (2019). An IoT
based control system for a solar membrane distillation plant used for
greenhouse irrigation. In Global IoT summit, GIoTS 2019 - Proceedings. https://
doi.org/10.1109/GIOTS.2019.8766370.

Gorchev, H. G., & Ozolins, G. (2011). WHO guidelines for drinking-water quality.

WHO Chronicle, 38, 104–108. https://doi.org/10.1016/S1462-0758(00)00006-

6

[Crossref]

Joy, N., Antony, A., & Anderson, A. (2018). Experimental study on improving the
performance of solar still using air blower. International Journal of Ambient

Energy, 39(6), 613–616.

[Crossref]

Kabeel, A. E., & Abdelgaied, M. (2016). Improving the performance of solar still
by using PCM as a thermal storage medium under Egyptian conditions.

Desalination, 383, 22–28. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.desal.2016.01.006
[Crossref]

Khan, M. U., Khan, M. R., Hossain, B., & Ahmed, Q. S. (1984). Alum potash in
water to prevent cholera. The Lancet, 3(4), 1032. https://doi.org/10.1177/
004051756203200411

[Crossref]

Manokar, A. M., Winston, D. P., Kabeel, A. E., & Sathyamurthy, R. (2018).
Sustainable fresh water and power production by integrating PV panel in
inclined solar still. Journal of Cleaner Production, 172, 2711–2719. https://doi.
org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2017.11.140

[Crossref]

Mazille, F. (2020). Disaster situations: Planing and preparedness, water

purification, ion exchange. Retrieved June 22, 2022, from https://sswm.info/
sswm-university-course/module-6-disaster-situations-planning-and-
preparedness/further-resources-0/ion-exchange


Modi, K. V., & Modi, J. G. (2019). Performance of single-slope double-basin
solar stills with small pile of wick materials. Applied Thermal Engineering, 149,
723–730. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.applthermaleng.2018.12.071

[Crossref]

Murugavel, K. K., Sivakumar, S., Ahamed, J. R., Chockalingam, K. K. S. K., &
Srithar, K. (2010). Single basin double slope solar still with minimum basin
depth and energy storing materials. Applied Energy, 87(2), 514–523. https://
doi.org/10.1016/j.apenergy.2009.07.023

[Crossref]

Omara, Z. M., Kabeel, A. E., & Essa, F. A. (2015). Effect of using nanofluids and
providing vacuum on the yield of corrugated wick solar still. Energy Conversion
and Management, 103, 965–972. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.enconman.2015.07.

035

[Crossref]

Pal, P., Yadav, P., Dev, R., & Singh, D. (2017). Performance analysis of modified
basin type double slope multi–wick solar still. Desalination, 422, 68–82.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.desal.2017.08.009

[Crossref]

Refalo, P., Ghirlando, R., & Abela, S. (2016). The use of a solar chimney and
condensers to enhance the productivity of a solar still. Desalination and Water
Treatment, 57, 23024–23037. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.enconman.2014.05.

021

[Crossref]

Sanserwal, M., Kumar Singh, A., & Singh, P. (2020). Impact of materials and
economic analysis of single slope single basin passive solar still: A review.

Materials Today: Proceedings, 21, 1643–1652. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.matpr.

2019.11.289

[Crossref]

Singh, M., & Ahmed, S. (2020). IoT based smart water management systems: A
systematic review. Materials Today: Proceedings, 46, 5211–5218. https://doi.
org/10.1016/j.matpr.2020.08.588

[Crossref]

Tiwari, G. N., Singh, H. N., & Tripathi, R. (2003). Present status of solar
distillation. Solar Energy, 75(5), 367–373. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.solener.


2003.07.005

[Crossref]

United Nations. (2020). The sustainable development goals report 2020. United
Nations Statics Division. Retrieved from https://unstats.un.org/sdgs

WaterProfessionals. (2022). Water purification and chlorination. Retrieved June
22, 2022, from https://www.waterprofessionals.com/learning-center/
chlorination/

WHO. (2022). Drinking-water. Retrieved June 23, 2022, from https://www.
who.int/news-room/fact-sheets/detail/drinking-water


© The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd. 2023

T. Ahamed (ed.), IoT and AI in Agriculture

https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-19-8113-5_7

7. Long Range Wide Area Network

(LoRaWAN) for Oil Palm Soil Monitoring

Yee Nie Goh¹, Diyana Jamaludin¹, Hazreen Haizi Harith¹,

Alfadhl Yahya Alkhaled², Nurul Adilah Abdul Latiff³ and Samsuzana Abd
Aziz¹

(1) Smart Farming Technology Research Center, Department of

Biological and Agricultural Engineering, Faculty of Engineering,

Universiti Putra Malaysia, Serdang, Malaysia

(2) Department of Horticulture, College of Agricultural and Life
Sciences, University of Wisconsin – Madison, Madison, WI, USA

(3) Faculty of Ocean Engineering Technology and Informatics,

Universiti Malaysia Terengganu, Kuala Terengganu, Terengganu,
Malaysia

Samsuzana Abd Aziz

Email: samsuzana@upm.edu.my

Abstract

As the global agricultural sector gradually moves towards industry 4.0,
the implementation of the Internet of Things (IoT) in precision
agriculture allows farmers to improve the overall management with

real-time monitoring. With wireless sensor networks (WSN),

information regarding variability of soil electrical conductivity (EC) and
pH                                                that crucially affect nutrient uptake are easily 
monitored. However,

the challenge of adopting these technologies in agriculture is the need
for                                                 a scalable and wide coverage wireless 
communication system. IoT
implementations in agriculture are restricted by limited network

coverage, for example, in oil palm estates that are vast and usually


located in rural areas with limited internet access. This study aims to
propose a system design based on long range wide area network

(LoRaWAN) communication protocol to monitor soil EC and pH in an

oil palm nursery. The template for LoRaWAN network is laid out in four
parts; sensor node, gateway, network server, and application server.

LoRaWAN is perfect for outlying regions without cellular network

coverage or for establishing private networks covering long distances
with                                         minimum power consumption and maintenance. It provides 
long
range communication of small amounts of data with high immunity to
interference under low-power consumption. In this chapter, LoRaWAN
is implemented as the transmission protocol that meets the need of the
IoT services in oil palm nurseries to monitor soil EC and pH of growing
mediums. A comparison of LoRaWAN performance in a young oil palm
plantation, an oil palm nursery, an urban area and a greenhouse

nursery shows that strong LoRaWAN transmission is achievable with
higher gateway elevation and clear line of sight. LoRa transmission
successfully                                            covered the entire oil palm nursery area of 
6 hectare (ha)
and reached up to more than 1 km distance in the urban area. For wider
areas, this setup can be duplicated or scaled up. Both young oil palm
plantation and nursery achieved strong LoRa transmission with

received signal strength indication (RSSI) close to −100 and signal-to-
noise ratio (SNR) values that are considered very minimally corrupted.

From this study, the feasibility of LoRaWAN as a network protocol to be
used                                                 in oil palm nurseries for soil EC and pH 
monitoring is proven to be
successful.

Keywords Internet of Things (IoT) – Precision agriculture – Wireless
sensor                                            networks (WSN) – Long Range Wide Area Network 
(LoRaWAN)
– Oil palm – Soil monitoring

7.1 Introduction

The agricultural sector particularly in Asia is gradually improving as
farmers                                                are encouraged to use modern techniques to 
increase yield and
cut down on input cost. Precision agriculture is a farming management
concept that uses technology to provide site specific care by observing,


measuring and responding to inter and intra-field variability in crops.
This                                           approach applies information technology (IT) to 
ensure crops and
soil receive all they need for optimum health and productivity.

Furthermore, the use of modern technology not only increases crop
productivity, but also helps in saving resources while keeping the

environment clean and safe (Pierce & Nowak, 1999). Precision
agriculture                                         includes monitoring crops from various sensor 
nodes
placed in agricultural fields using Internet of Things (IoT) and wireless
sensor networks (WSN) to provide solutions based on collected data

(Mohd Kassim et al., 2014).

Particularly in Malaysia and Indonesia, as the oil palm is the main
contributing crop to the economy, efforts have been focused to
modernise the farming techniques for higher productivity. In oil palm
nurseries, monitoring electrical conductivity (EC) and pH levels of

growing mediums are essential to provide crops with an optimum
quantity                                             of water and fertilisers based on their 
requirement to produce
high quality seedlings. However, current fertigation systems in oil palm
nurseries lack real-time crop requirement information as systems are
monitored and controlled manually. In large oil palm nursery estates,

the use of IoT is challenging as the coverage areas are vast and they are
located in rural areas where internet access is limited and expensive,
hence, making it less feasible for adoption. Long range wide area

network (LoRaWAN) offers a very compelling combination of long
range,                                        low-power consumption, and secure data transmission. 
It
provides the ability for sensors to connect at a range relatively further
than other types of wireless sensor networks. LoRaWAN is expected to
provide long range communication in large and outskirts oil palm

nursery areas. Parameter data collected from sensors in growing
mediums                                              with the help of a LoRaWAN gateway are stored 
in the cloud
which could be utilised for further analysis and automation to reduce

labour while increasing productivity. This chapter aims to provide real-
time crop monitoring of EC and pH of growing mediums that is
accessible through the cloud. The specific objectives were (1) to

develop a soil EC and pH monitoring system based on LoRaWAN
communication protocol, (2) to test the feasibility of LoRaWAN to

transmit soil EC and pH data in different oil palms setups, and (3) to


monitor and collect EC and pH data in growing medium of oil palm
seedlings.

7.2 Internet of Things (IoT) in Agriculture

IoT refers to sensors, processing ability, software, and other

technologies that connect and exchange data with other devices and
systems over the Internet or other communication networks, which is a
crucial                                          component of digital advancement in precision 
agriculture. An
IoT system consists of several functional blocks to facilitate various
utilities to the system such as, sensing, identification, actuation,

communication, and management. Agricultural IoT framework is a six-
layered concept which includes hardware facilities, internet and

communication technologies, IoT middleware, cloud services, big data
analytics, and farmer experience (Ray, 2017) (Fig. 7.1).



Fig. 7.1 IoT architecture framework in agriculture

Some of the domains of IoT for agriculture are farm monitoring,
irrigation                                       management system, pest and disease control, and 
animal

tracking (Ray, 2017). As crop requirement varies throughout the field,
real-time ecological information gathered remotely from agricultural
surroundings provides precise input of location, timing, and amount
required.

7.3 Wireless Sensor Network in Agriculture

Suitable communication technology for data transmission is important
to                                            ensure successful implementation of IoT in 
agriculture. WSNs, which
is the network of sensors and actuators, are employed as a cost-

effective application to increase agricultural yield. Sensor nodes

communicate wirelessly through a communication protocol, forwarding
data to an application server through a gateway. As more sensor nodes
are added to WSN, parameters of agricultural monitoring and network
scalability                                            increase. Communication protocols form the 
backbone of IoT
systems that enable network connectivity and coupling to applications.
However, the limitations of most wireless communication technologies
are high power consumption and short transmission distance that fail
to meet the requirement of WSN applications in agriculture (Brewster

et al., 2017).

To overcome this barrier, a low-power wide area network (LPWAN)
is                                                the recent solution in the communication sector. 
Three

representative technologies of LPWAN that compete for large-scale IoT
are                                               long range (LoRa), narrow-band Internet of Things 
(NB-IoT), and
Sigfox. In agriculture, devices only update sensed data a few times per
hour as the environmental conditions do not radically change. LPWAN
does not focus on enabling high data rates per device; rather, the key
performance metrics defined for LPWAN are energy efficiency,
scalability, and coverage where Sigfox and LoRa are ideal for this
application. NB-IoT is the least favourable solution to use in agriculture,
as it requires cellular coverage which many farms do not have (Mekki et
al., 2019).


Sigfox has a slightly longer network coverage and range than LoRa,
however, LoRa performs better in battery life and latency (Jawad et al.,
2017). Besides, LoRa technology operates in the unlicensed frequency
band, where end users are free to set up LoRa gateways that are similar
to house-owned WiFi routers (Song et al., 2017). Therefore, LoRa

technology is perfect for outlying regions without cellular network

coverage or for establishing private networks covering long distances
with                                          minimum power consumption and maintenance.

7.4 Soil Electrical Conductivity (EC) and pH in Oil
Palm

Oil palm (Elaeis guineensis) is one of the most important crops used for
biodiesel production and is a major cash crop income for ASEAN

countries such as Indonesia and Malaysia. To ensure optimum growth
and                                               high yield of oil palm, balanced and adequate 
supply of fertilisers
are required. Since fertiliser recommendations are based on calibrated
soil and crop requirement, therefore it is essential to monitor the
variability of EC and pH level in soil (Behera et al., 2017). Fertigation
systems provide balanced nutrition level to crop by monitoring and
modifying pH and EC level of water mixed fertilisers with respect to soil
parameters (Samsuri et al., 2010).

EC is a measure of the total amount of salts in the growing medium.

High soil salinity restricts the crop’s ability to uptake water from soil
while                                                high EC levels have a toxic effect on plant’s 
metabolism (Hanlon &
Bartos, 1993). On the other hand, pH is a measure of acidity or
alkalinity that affects the availability of macro and micronutrients in

the growing medium (McCauley et al., 2009). Almost all crops prefer a
slightly acidic pH between 5.4 and 6.0. Soil EC values less than 1000
mhos/cm and pH values more than 4.0 are categorised in the desirable
range of soil properties for oil palms (Goh et al., 2016). Furthermore,
pH values above 5.5 correlate to high soil fertility for oil palm

cultivation (Mutert, 1999). Thus, regular monitoring of EC and pH of
growing medium in oil palm nursery is essential to prevent almost all
nutrient-related problems during oil palm growth.


7.5 LoRaWAN System Design for Soil EC and pH
Monitoring

LoRaWAN defines the medium access control (MAC) communication
protocol                                            and the system architecture for the WSN network,
standardised by the LoRa Alliance (Fremont, CA). The template for
LoRaWAN network is laid out in four parts; (1) nodes, (2) gateways, (3)
network servers, and (iv) application servers. In this study, a soil EC
and pH monitoring system was proposed and developed based on
LoRaWAN architecture as shown in Fig. 7.2. In the time of development,
this setup was built on an Arduino based node and a single channel
gateway in The Things Network (TTN) V2.

Fig. 7.2 LoRaWAN network architecture for soil EC and pH monitoring in oil
palm plantation

A LoRaWAN node is an endpoint physical hardware device that
contains sensing capabilities, some computing power and a radio

module for translating data into a radio signal. These end devices can
send                                              data to the gateway and also receive data via 
LoRa wireless

protocol. The connection between a node and a gateway is bi-

directional with very low bandwidth, between 0.3 and 50 kbps. The


hardware components (Fig. 7.3) to setup a prototype node module in
this study are as follows:

1. Arduino UNO Rev3

2. Dragino LoRa Shield 915 Mhz

3. DFRobot Analog Electrical Conductivity (EC) Sensor

4. DFRobot Analog pH Sensor

Fig. 7.3 (a) A LoRa node and (b) sensors connected to a LoRa node

To build the LoRa node, LoRa shield is stacked onto Arduino UNO
with                                                 an antenna installed (Fig. 7.3a). An EC sensor 
is connected at
analog pin A1 and pH sensor at analog pin A0 of the Arduino UNO at the
node. The LoRa node firmware is set up by importing LoraWAN-MAC-
in-C (LMIC) and EC sensor libraries into the complete node sketch in

Arduino IDE software.

The flow chart in Fig. 7.4 elaborates the algorithm flow at the node.

Initial settings like pin assignments for both sensors, baud rate and

frequency are set according to a standard requirement. The frequency
for                                             this system is set to 921.2 Mhz which is within the 
allowable
unlicensed frequency band for LoRa in Malaysia; from the range of 919
to 923 Mhz. Since the algorithm uses serial communication, availability


of serial pins and acknowledgement from the gateway is checked to
indicate successful communication between the LoRa node and the
gateway.


Fig. 7.4 Flowchart for LoRa node communication set up


The LoRa packet messages received from nodes are forwarded by a
physical machine called gateway to the network server via the internet.

These messages are converted to an array of bits that can be sent via
the traditional internet protocol (IP) networks. The gateway is

connected to The Things Network (TTN), a global collaborative IoT
ecosystem that creates networks, devices and solutions using
LoRaWAN to which it transmits all the messages. The hardware

components to setup the single channel gateway module are as follow:

1. Raspberry Pi 3 Model B+

2. Dragino LoRa GPS HAT 915Mhz

To build the LoRaWAN gateway, LoRa HAT is stacked onto the
Raspberry                                                Pi with the antenna installed as shown in 
Fig. 7.5. The
Raspberry Pi runs on Raspbian, the free operating system based on
Debian, optimised for the Raspberry Pi hardware. The software for the
single channel LoRa gateway is cloned from GitHub

(zakibakar75/single_chan_pkt_fwd). The pin configuration in

globalconf.json file is set as so; “pin_nss”: 6, “pin_dio0”: 7, “pin_rst”: 0.

Then, the server is defined as 13.66.213.36

(router.us.thethings.network), spreading factor is set to SF7 and the
frequency is configured to 921.2 MHz in the main.cpp file. After the
code is compiled, the gateway is executed to obtain Gateway ID:
b8:27:eb:ff:ff:c8:55:a1.


Fig. 7.5 LoRa gateway with an antenna

Figure 7.6 elaborates the algorithm flow at the server side from
receiving                                          broadcast messages and sending back 
acknowledgement to
the same LoRa node. The baud rate and frequency are set with the
application programming interface (API) key which is exposed by the

handler selected; ttn-handler-brazil. Data is checked continuously as it
is displayed in the TTN application data window.


Fig. 7.6  Flow chart for receiving broadcast messages and sending back
acknowledgement to the LoRa node

The TTN ecosystem provides the network for IoT devices based on
LoRaWAN                                           standards. It is based on an open community of 
developers,
where LoRa gateways and applications are registered for free. The TTN
Server receives data packets from the LoRa Gateway stored temporarily
in TTN and reachable via Internet. The network servers can be used for
both uplink (i.e., sensor to application) or downlink (i.e., application to
sensor) communication.

A user account is registered at https://www.thethingsnetwork.org.

To set up the node in TTN, an application is created, and the device is


registered under activation by personalisation (ABP). The two session
keys                                          generated for this device, network session key and 
application
session Key together with the device address are then hardcoded into

the complete node sketch. To set up the gateway in TTN, the Gateway ID
obtained previously from the gateway module is filled at gateway

Extended Unique Identifier (EUI) (a 16-digit alphanumeric code that
uniquely identifies a gateway in a LoRaWAN network) of the new

registered gateway. The frequency of 921.2 MHz is set and “ttn-router-
asia-se”                                                 is selected. Upon successful node and 
gateway registration,

TTN data displays received packets from the LoRa node in the
application                                            data window. The payload shown in raw bytes 
in the
application data window is decoded to display in ASCII format (Fig.

7.7). The raw byte data is taken and then a string that contains all of the
characters corresponding to each byte is returned.

Fig. 7.7 Screenshot of TTN V2 payload data

The LoRaWAN network server is then interfaced with the
application                                          server, in which application-specific 
processes are
performed on cloud. Application server is where the data collected
from the end devices, are available to browsers for viewing,

manipulated and sent back out to nodes over the network server. The
last segment of the system is the visualisation of received data using
Node-RED, which is a flow-based development tool for visual


programming developed originally by IBM for wiring together
hardware                                        devices, APIs, and online services as part of the 
IoT. The
Node-RED has extensions to get data from TTN and functions for
dashboard user interface (UI). Figure 7.8 shows the browser-based
flow editor for board voltage, board temperature, soil EC, and soil pH

data obtained from TTN. Data from TTN are downloaded, modified into
charts and gauges to be displayed in the dashboard UI.

Fig. 7.8 Node-RED browser-based flow editor

The visualisation of the received data sensed by the node module is
displayed in the dashboard UI. Figure 7.9 shows the results obtained

from the LoRa node as EC and pH sensors are placed into the soil. The
soil EC and pH readings of growing medium are obtained in real time.

From this dashboard, users can easily track and monitor their crop
condition to make better decisions for further controls.


Fig. 7.9 Node-RED dashboard for soil EC and pH readings

7.6 Signal Propagation Tests

A series of small-scale deployments was carried out to test the signal
transmission feasibility of the developed LoRaWAN system within
different environmental setups. The tests aimed to measure and

compare the signal propagation performance through some foliage
environments; a young oil palm plantation (Fig. 7.10), an oil palm

nursery (Fig. 7.13), and an urban area (Fig. 7.15). All tests are carried
out                                               in Selangor, Malaysia. The gateway and the 
end-node device
hardware of the system are battery powered. Hence, this portability


allowed the experiment to be tested in various kinds of environments.
From                                           these experiments, relevant signal quality 
parameters such as the
received signal strength indication (RSSI) and signal to noise (SNR)
values together with the distance of each node from the gateway are

extracted.


Fig. 7.10 (a) Environment in a young oil palm plantation with oil palms
around five metres tall, (b) the LoRa gateway placement, and (c) the nodes and
gateway locations in the oil palm plantation


7.6.1 Signal Propagation Test in a Young Oil Palm
Plantation

The test area was at Universiti Putra Malaysia (UPM) Oil Palm
Plantation,                                             with a total area of four hectares. In 
total 850 7-year-old,
around 5 m tall oil palm trees are planted in this block. The gateway is
stationary and placed at 2.988439, 101.723713 on a 7 m high building.
The ground elevation of the building is 81 m, hence the total elevation
inclusive of building height is 88 m. The test is carried out by
positioning the end-node device at different distances to test the
maximum range of signal received.

The RSSI is the received signal power in milliwatts and is measured
in                                              dBm. This value is used as a measurement of how 
well the receiver
(gateway) can “hear” a signal from the sender (node). RSSI values are
negative and the closer it is to zero, the stronger the signal. For LoRa

transmission, RSSI values from −30 dBm to −120 dBm are considered
strong while values below −120 dBm are categorised as weak signals.
On the other hand, SNR is the ratio between the received power signal
and                                               the noise floor power level. The noise floor is 
an area of all
unwanted interfering signal sources which can corrupt the transmitted
signal and therefore retransmission will occur. Normally the noise floor
is the physical limit of sensitivity, however, LoRa works below the noise
level. Typical LoRa SNR values are between −20 dB and +10 dB. Signals
closer to +10 dB indicates that the received signal is less corrupted.

LoRa can demodulate signals which are −7.5 dB to −20 dB below the
noise                                              floor. In all measurements (Fig. 7.11), the red 
colour points at
zero does not indicate the value zero but rather an indication of signal
loss at that specific point location.


Fig. 7.11  (a) Received Signal Strength Indication (RSSI) and (b) Signal to noise
ratio (SNR) in a young oil palm plantation

To effectively cover long ranges and achieve a good link budget, it is
important to establish a direct line of sight between the transmitter and
receiver as often as possible. In radio transmission, specific spatial

areas in between the line of sight are referred to as Fresnel zones (Fig.


7.12). If there are objects in these zones, they can have a negative
influence                                               on the wave propagation, even when there is 
visual contact
between the transmitting and receiving antennas. For each object

located in the Fresnel zone, the signal level is lowered, and the range is
reduced (Jebril et al., 2018).

Fig. 7.12 Fresnel zone between transmitter and receiver

Based on the results for LoRa transmission in the young oil palm
plantation, the RSSI values were almost constant as distance increased.
Five of the points were in the range of strong LoRa signals except for
point Y6 which has packet loss (Table 7.1). It is observed that there is a
large variation in topography as ground elevation ranges from 81 m at
the gateway to 53 m at where point Y6 is located. Since Y6 is at a lower
elevation, the signal is disrupted before reaching the gateway as the
signal must pass through a wide canopy and fronds of oil palm trees

that were of similar height to the gateway. Thus, there is no clear line of
sight between the node and the gateway. The area was secluded and the
foliage attenuated LoRa signal propagation quite heavily. Signals that
propagate through the oil palm trees are greatly affected by the
distributed wide fronds that cause attenuation, scattering, diffraction
and absorption of the radiated propagating waves (Ahmad et al., 2018).

Table 7.1 LoRa transmission result in young oil palm plantation


Point

Coordinates

Distance
from
gateway
(m)

Height (m)

Ground
Elevation
(m)

Approximate
Surrounding
Tree      Height (m)

Total
Height
(m)

RSSI

(dBm)

SNR
(dB)


Y1  2.989326,

101.723095

Y2  2.989889,

101.722742

Y3  2.990331,

101.723019

Y4  2.989674,

101.722206

Y5  2.989009,

101.721890

Y6  2.989030,

101.721305

121.16    76      5

192.58    67      5

223.04    66      5

217.27    60      5

212.98    59      5

276.51    53      5

81    −101   −5

72    −101   −4

71    −102   −6

65    −102   −3

64    −102   −5

58     –     –

In the experiment, the gateway placement was limited to a 7 m
building which was the tallest building in that area. For LoRa

transmission to reach further areas in the young oil palm plantation,
the gateway should be placed at a higher elevation for direct line of
sight.                                         The furthest point tested that received signal was 
as far as

223.04 m. The SNR values for all five points had negative values
showing                                            that noise level is higher than signal level 
throughout the
transmission but is still within the range of a good signal. The

transmission is affected by the nature of the plantation environment
where                                             large oil palm fronds attenuate LoRa signals.

7.6.2 Signal Propagation Test in an Oil Palm Nursery

The next test area was at Malaysian Palm Oil Board (MPOB) Nursery,

Bangi with a total area of six hectares (Fig. 7.13). The oil palm seedlings
are                                               about 12–18 months old, ranging from 1–2 metres 
tall. The gateway
is stationary and placed at 2.928454, 101.765041 on a 2.5 m high hut.

The ground elevation of the hut is 22 m, thus the total elevation
inclusive                                             of hut height is 24.5 m. The test is carried 
out by positioning

the end-node device at different distances to test the maximum range of
the signal transmission.


Fig. 7.13  (a) Environment in the Malaysian Palm Oil Board (MPOB) oil palm
nursery, Bangi, (b) the LoRA gateway placement at a station building, and (c)
the nodes and gateway location in the oil palm nursery

In the oil palm nursery, typically there were no tall buildings and
the                                          seedlings had an average height of one to two metres 
as shown in
Fig. 7.13a. As there were no attenuation factors, LoRa transmission at
every node point was successful without packet loss, covering the


whole area of six hectares (Table 7.2). For these distances, even with
small                                           obstacles like small storage buildings and oil palm 
seedlings, the
transmissions were successful. In this nursery, communications with
distance up to 261.01 m can easily be achieved even when the gateway
is placed on a 2.5 m hut. However, within a similar distance, at

276.51 m of point Y6 in the young oil palm plantation, there were no
signals received. This strongly proves that a clear and direct line of
sight is required for successful LoRa transmission.

Table 7.2 LoRa signal transmission results in oil palm nursery


Point

Coordinates

Distance
from
Gateway
(m)

Height (m)

Ground
Elevation
(m)

Approximate
Surrounding
Tree      Height (m)

Total
Height
(m)

RSSI

(dBm)

SNR
(dB)


N1
N2
N3
N4
N5
N6
N7
N8
N9

N10

2.9278347,

101.76529435

2.92640933,

101.76537634

2.92627145,

101.76467087

2.92642459,

101.76386446

2.92633962,

101.7660182

2.92681377,

101.76570588

2.92740759,

101.76496567

2.92789339,

101.76479844

2.92850714,

101.76577265

2.92815334,

101.76593863

73.62     22      1

227.58    23      1

241.57    23      1

261.01    21      7

256.75    21      1

194.66    23      1

115.84    23      1

67.68     23      1

80.36     20      2

103.77    20      1

23    −91   8

24    −100  4

24    −96   6

28    −99   4

22    −95   7

24    −104  −3

24    −96   6

24    −93   8

22    −98   5

21    −101  2

Based on the RSSI vs. distance graph in Fig. 7.14, as distance
increases, RSSI gradually decreases from −91 to −104 dBm. All node

points have positive SNR with higher received power signal than noise


except for point N6 having negative SNR value indicating signal being

lower than noise. This probably could be caused by the storage building
at                                                N1 which is directly in the line of sight between 
N6 and the gateway.
Even at N4 there were few rows of 7 m high oil palm trees, the signal
was still good because there was a clear line of sight as trees were
planted sparsely with ample space for penetration. From this

experiment, the feasibility of LoRaWAN as a network protocol is
justified                                               as the whole oil palm nursery area was 
successfully covered
with strong LoRa transmission.


Fig. 7.14  (a) Received Signal Strength Indication (RSSI) and (b) Signal-to-
noise ratio (SNR) across distances in oil palm nursery

7.6.3 Signal Propagation Test in an Urban Area

In this test, the signal propagation performance is carried out in the
urban                                               area surrounded by tall buildings, houses and 
trees around UPM
campus and Sri Serdang town with an estimated total area of 225
hectares (Fig. 7.15). The gateway is stationary and placed at 3.008647,


101.721345 on a 50 m (11 storeys) high building. The ground elevation
of                                              the building is 46 m, thus the total elevation 
inclusive of building
height is 96 m above sea level. The test is carried out by positioning the
end-node device at different distances to test the maximum range of
signal transmission.

Fig. 7.15  (a) The LoRa gateway placement at the building and (b) the nodes
and gateway location in the urban area

In the urban area, the gateway was placed at a much higher

elevation than in both the young oil palm plantation and nursery as it
was easier to get access to higher buildings. The gateway was placed
indoors beside a window on the 11th floor at about 50 m high.

Therefore, LoRa transmission successfully reached up to 1.1 km in a
city neighbourhood surrounded by trees, houses and some tall
buildings that were made of a variation of materials. At point U6,

though it was just 646.66 m away from the gateway, the signal was
blocked by a seven storey UPM Engineering Faculty building. Point U3
had                                                  a similar distance of 1.1 km as U9, however, 
had signal loss due to
the dense housing area surrounding U3. Furthermore, coverage radius
was limited as the gateway was placed indoors. Almost all points

transmitted data at negative SNR with RSSI lower than −100 dBm (Fig.


7.16) indicating there was higher interference in the transmission
(Table 7.3).

Fig. 7.16  (a) The received signal strength indication (RSSI) and (b) the signal-
to-noise ratio (SNR) across distances in the urban area

Table 7.3 LoRa signal transmission in an urban area


Point

U1
U2

Coordinates

3.006262, 101.719660

3.000516, 101.717129

Distance from gateway (m)

333.51

1026.92

Height (m)

45

54

RSSI

(dBm)

−101

−102

SNR
(dB)

−3

−6


Point

U3
U4
U5
U6
U7
U8
U9
U10

Coordinates

3.004829, 101.711426

3.007306, 101.715167

3.004845, 101.722722

3.003334, 101.719087

3.002631, 101.721258

3.001333, 101.721528

2.998801, 101.723629

2.996780, 101.720701

Distance from gateway (m)

1194.04

712.52

455.51

646.66

679.38

822.46

1124.55

1322.66

Height (m)

41

47

46

47

48

58

77

81

RSSI

(dBm)

–

−101

−104
–

−103

−104

−105
–

SNR
(dB)
–

−8

−1
–
0

−3

−7
–

The attenuation of signal happens due to it having to pass through

or around several materials harder than wood (Rudd et al., 2014). Thus,
in                                                 an urban environment, there is a heavy 
dependency on the
placement of both gateway and end-node as a single house can have a

large effect on the signal quality. This problem can be avoided by
placing                                              the gateway at higher elevations to reduce 
path loss by going
around objects rather than through them. Height has a great impact on
performance when there is free line of sight and the Fresnel zone is

clear of obstacles. By applying this elevation in the young oil palm
plantation and oil palm nursery, performance would very likely
improve drastically.

7.7 Calibration of EC and pH Sensors

The calibration of EC and pH sensors were carried out to validate
measurement                                           accuracy. Errors are estimated during normal 
operation
of a sensor and corrected by a suitable feedback mechanism of the

calibration code.

For the EC sensor, a two-point calibration is done using standard
buffer                                          solutions of 1413 μS/cm and 12.88 mS/cm. The EC 
calibration
code is uploaded to the Arduino board and commands are input into
the serial monitor to view and calibrate electrical conductivity

readings. The sensor probe is washed with distilled water, dried with
paper and inserted into 1413 μS/cm standard buffer solution (Fig.

7.17). The probe is stirred gently in the solution, until the values are


stable as the programme automatically identifies buffer solution

1413 μS/cm. After the first point calibration is completed, relevant
parameters are saved and the second point calibration for buffer
solution 12.88 mS/cm is performed.

Fig. 7.17 EC sensor and conductivity buffer solutions

For the pH sensor, buffer solutions 4.00, 7.00 and 10.00 are used to
calibrate for neutral, acidic and alkaline solutions (Fig. 7.18). The buffer
solutions are measured with a handheld pH meter to check pH value
accuracy of the buffer solutions (Fig. 7.19).


Fig. 7.18 pH buffer solutions


Fig. 7.19 (a) Ionix Instruments Premium Line Testers Series 5, (b) pH
measurement

The pH electrode is washed with distilled water and placed into the

7.00 buffer solution (Fig. 7.20). The pH calibration code is uploaded to
the                                             Arduino and the error of the pH value is printed on 
the serial
monitor is compared with 7.00. The value difference of 0.11 is input at
“#define Offset” of the calibration code. Then the pH electrode is placed
into the 4.00 buffer solution and waited for about 1 min. Then the

potential gain of the sensor board is adjusted until it reaches 4.00 and
the readings are allowed to stabilise. After the acidic calibration is

completed, alkaline calibration is then performed using 10.00 buffer
solution.


Fig. 7.20 pH sensor calibration

7.8 Soil EC and pH Measurement Test

To test the practicality of using this system in an indoor environment to
monitor soil parameters, a soil EC and pH measurement test is carried
out in the UPM Transgenic Greenhouse (2.993361, 101.719596) (Fig.

7.21). A total of 60 oil palm seedlings of 9 months old are planted in

this 78.04 m² greenhouse. Four different types of treatment are given to
the oil palm seedlings in the greenhouse; uninoculated with water
deficit; uninoculated and well-watered; inoculated and well-watered;
and inoculated with water deficit. In this measurement test, five
seedlings from each bench are monitored for soil EC and pH readings.

The gateway is placed at five different points in the greenhouse (Fig.
7.22).


Fig. 7.21  (a) Environment in greenhouse, (b) sensor node, and (c) EC and pH
sensors placed in soil in the polybag of an oil palm seedling


Fig. 7.22  Layout of greenhouse benches, gateway positions and tested
seedlings Layout of greenhouse benches, gateway positions and tested
seedlings

Soil EC (Fig. 7.23) and pH (Fig. 7.24) both show smooth line graphs
for                                               each seedling indicating stable sensor 
measurement and data

transmission. Both EC and pH graphs display the differences in soil EC
and                                                pH values of seedlings in different growing 
conditions. Further

observations and experiments can be carried out with the data

obtained from soil monitoring to conduct plant health analysis. One of
the factors which may affect soil salinity is the evapotranspiration rate.

Seedlings located nearer to a ventilation fan will experience higher
evapotranspiration rate. Based on both charts, a healthy seedling that is
uninoculated and well-watered has an average EC value of 419.2 uS/cm
and                                                     an average pH value of 5.5.


Fig. 7.23  Soil EC measurements of different treated oil palm seedlings
transmitted using LoRa network in a greenhouse nursery

Fig. 7.24  Soil pH measurements of different treated oil palm seedlings
transmitted using LoRa network in a greenhouse nursery


Both the gateway and the node were placed in the greenhouse to
evaluate the RSSI and SNR in an indoor environment while monitoring
soil EC and pH of five different oil palm seedlings. According to Table

7.4, RSSI decreases as distance between gateway and node increases.
Overall,                                            the average RSSI of −63 dBm and SNR of 9 dB are 
considered as
strong and good LoRa transmission. In the greenhouse, the oil palm
seedlings were arranged with relatively wide spacing between the
seedlings. The transmission did not face much interference as the
signals from the node did not need to penetrate any walls to reach the
gateway.

Table 7.4 Node RSSI and SNR at various gateway locations inside a
greenhouse

S1  S2  S3  S4  S5

Gateway/sensor node (RSSI)
G1 −37 −59 −65 −65 −76

G2 −56 −68 −75 −64 −68

G3 −65 −80 −57 −60 −66

G4 −66 −60 −54 −51 −55

G5 −75 −67 −64 −65 −62

Gateway/sensor node (SNR)
G1 10  9   9   9   10

G2 10  10  9   9   10

G3 9   9   9   9   10

G4 9   9   9   9   9

G5 9   9   9   10  9

7.9 Conclusion

A soil EC and pH monitoring system based on LoRaWAN protocol was
successfully developed. In this study, a performance evaluation of the
LoRaWAN network was conducted and from this evaluation, limitations
of the performance in different environments were analysed. LoRaWAN
transmission was able to cover the entire oil palm nursery area of 6 ha


in this study with a maximum distance of 261 m. In the young oil palm
plantation, as the area was secluded with wide canopy and fronds, the
signal strength weakened as distance increased therefore achieving

only a maximum distance of 223 m. This problem can be circumvented
by                                          elevating the gateway or device to the point with free 
line of sight as
proven in urban areas achieving up to more than 1 km distance. As for
the test in the greenhouse setup (78.04 m²), the transmission did not
face much interference and LoRaWAN communication gave stable
measurements throughout the experiment (10.00 am until 2.00 pm)
with an average EC of 419.2 uS/cm and an average pH of 5.5. From this

study, the feasibility of LoRaWAN as a network protocol to be used in oil
palm nurseries for soil EC and pH monitoring is proven to be successful.
The use of LoRaWAN will benefit farmers and overcome the restrictions
for IoT implementation in the agriculture sector.

7.10 Recommendation

The scalability of LoRaWAN can be improved by increasing the

spreading factor (SF) values. In this study, SF7 was used throughout the
whole experiment. By increasing the SF, the bit rate will be slower but

energy per data set becomes higher thus resulting in higher range.
Furthermore, there should be optical visibility between the transceiver
and receiver antennas by placing the gateway at a higher elevation for
clear line of sight. The range can be improved by increasing the height
of the antennas to achieve optical visibility between them.

For future investigation into this subject, more case studies are

needed as this one is limited to short-term tests and conducted under
similar weather conditions for all cases. For further application of the
system,                                                 a fully automated fertigation system can be 
developed based on
the LoRaWAN protocol. Complete data analytics can be performed by
incorporating information from a weather station and sensor nodes to
send feedback (downlink) to the actuator in fertigation systems.

Another improvement to the current system is to add additional

features such as resistance to the environment with waterproof, surge
and                                           lightning protection.


References

Ahmad, K. A., Salleh, M. S., Segaran, J. D., & Hashim, F. R. (2018, February).
Impact of foliage on LoRa 433MHz propagation in tropical environment. In AIP
Conference Proceedings (Vol. 1930, No. 1, p. 020009). AIP Publishing LLC.

Behera, S. K., Suresh, K., Rao, B. N., Ramachandrudu, K., Manorama, K., &
Harinarayana, P. (2017). Soil fertility and yield-limiting nutrients in oil palm
plantations of north-eastern state Mizoram of India. Journal of Plant Nutrition,
40(8), 1165–1171.

[Crossref]

Brewster, C., Roussaki, I., Kalatzis, N., Doolin, K., & Ellis, K. (2017). IoT in
agriculture: Designing a Europe-wide large-scale pilot. IEEE Communications
Magazine, 55(9), 26–33.

[Crossref]

Goh, K. J., Mahamooth, T. N., Ng, H. P., Teo, C. B., & Liew, Y. A. (2016). Managing
soil environment and its major impact on oil palm nutrition and productivity in
Malaysia. Advanced Agriecological Research Sdn. Bhd.

Hanlon, E. A., & Bartos, J. M. (1993). Soil pH and electrical conductivity: A
country extension soil laboratory manual. Circular (USA). no. 1081.

Jawad, H. M., Nordin, R., Gharghan, S. K., Jawad, A. M., & Ismail, M. (2017).
Energy-efficient wireless sensor networks for precision agriculture: A review.
Sensors, 17(8), 1781.

[Crossref][PubMed][PubMedCentral]

Jebril, A. H., Sali, A., Ismail, A., & Rasid, M. F. A. (2018). Overcoming limitations
of LoRa physical layer in image transmission. Sensors, 18(10), 3257.

[Crossref][PubMed][PubMedCentral]

Kassim, M. R. M., Mat, I., & Harun, A. N. (2014, July). Wireless Sensor Network
in precision agriculture application. In 2014 International conference on

computer, information and telecommunication systems (CITS) (pp. 1–5). IEEE.

McCauley, A., Jones, C., & Jacobsen, J. (2009). Soil pH and organic matter.

Nutrient Management Module, 8(2), 1–12.

Mekki, K., Bajic, E., Chaxel, F., & Meyer, F. (2019). A comparative study of
LPWAN technologies for large-scale IoT deployment. ICT Express, 5(1), 1–7.


[Crossref]

Mutert, E. (1999). Suitability of soils for oil palm in Southeast Asia. Better Crops
International, 13(1), 37.

Pierce, F. J., & Nowak, P. (1999). Aspects of precision agriculture. Advances in
Agronomy, 67, 1–85.

[Crossref]

Ray, P. P. (2017). Internet of things for smart agriculture: Technologies,
practices and future direction. Journal of Ambient Intelligence and Smart
Environments, 9(4), 395–420.

[Crossref]

Rudd, R., Craig, K., Ganley, M., & Hartless, R. (2014). Building materials and
propagation (Final Report, Ofcom, 2604).

Samsuri, S. F. M., Ahmad, R., & Hussein, M. (2010, May). Development of
nutrient solution mixing process on time-based drip fertigation system. In
2010 Fourth Asia international conference on mathematical/analytical modelling
and computer simulation (pp. 615–619). IEEE.

Song, Y., Lin, J., Tang, M., & Dong, S. (2017). An internet of energy things based
on wireless LPWAN. Engineering, 3(4), 460–466.

[Crossref]


© The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd. 2023

T. Ahamed (ed.), IoT and AI in Agriculture

https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-19-8113-5_8

8. Strategic Short Note: Application of Smart
Machine Vision in Agriculture, Forestry,
Fishery, and Animal Husbandry

Kai-Rong Chang¹, Tsung-Hsiang Ma¹ and Yan-Fu Kuo¹

(1) Department of Biomechatronics Engineering, College of

Bioresources and Agriculture, National Taiwan University, Taipei,
Taiwan

Yan-Fu Kuo

Email: ykuo@ntu.edu.tw

Abstract

Food production is an increasingly important topic worldwide due to
factors such as population increase and workforce aging. In

conventional agriculture, which consists of forestry, fishery, and
agriculture, and animal husbandry, manual observation is the main
method used by farmers to monitor field and animal conditions.

However, the younger generation is reluctant to engage in farming due
to                                               the high labor requirements and low wages. To 
solve this problem,
smart machine vision, which is the combination of deep learning and
machine vision, is applied for managing farms and increasing

production. In this section, the architectures of smart machine vision
applications are highlighted. Several examples of the applications are
shown.

Keywords Food security – Convolutional neural networks – Recurrent
neural                                            networks – Artificial intelligence – Machine 
learning – Deep

learning


8.1 Introduction

Food security is always one of the top priorities globally. As estimated
by                                               the United Nations, the global population will 
reach 9.7 billion in

2050 (United Nations, 2022). However, climate change makes food

production more challenging by reducing farmable land and worsening
the                                         environment for animal husbandry. In addition, food 
production is
facing issues of labor shortage and aging workforce (United Nations,

2022). Nowadays, few in the young generation are willing to work in
agriculture, forestry, fishery, and animal husbandry because of the
harsh working environments and disproportionate wages.

Past advances in farming have yielded new equipment and facilities
designed to improve farming efficiency (e.g., tractors and greenhouses).
However,                                               the observation of farming or animal 
conditions still relies on
manual observation. For example, farmers have to patrol in the field to
check the growth condition of crops. In animal husbandry, farmers have
to patrol regularly to monitor animal conditions. This is because the

environments for crops and animal husbandry are usually complex.
However, manual observation is slow and requires experience. More
automatic monitoring approaches are needed.

In recent years, due to breakthroughs in computing speed, deep
learning has become more popular as a method to solve complex

machine vision problems in the fields of agriculture, forestry, fishery,
and                                            animal husbandry. The application of deep learning 
algorithms in
machine vision is referred to as smart machine vision. Convolutional
neural networks (CNNs) and recurrent neural networks (RNNs;

Rumelhart et al., 1985) are the common types of deep learning
algorithms                                              that are employed in smart machine vision. 
The use of smart
machine vision is regarded as an automatic solution in the

aforementioned fields.

This section introduces the workflow and applications of smart
machine                                             vision in agriculture, forestry, fishery, and 
animal husbandry.
Firstly, different types of CNNs in various applications are introduced.

Next, four components of smart machine vision applications are
introduced. Last but not least, several examples of smart machine

vision in agriculture, forestry, fishery, and animal husbandry are shown.


These studies demonstrated how smart machine vision can help to
resolve the food security problem.

8.2 Tasks of Smart Machine Vision

Smart machine vision applications can be categorized into static and
dynamic tasks (Fig. 8.1). Static tasks include classification, localization
and classification, semantic segmentation, and instance segmentation.
Dynamic tasks are usually behavior recognition tasks. Typically, static
tasks use images as the input. On the other hand, dynamics tasks use
videos as the input.

Fig. 8.1 Tasks of smart machine vision

Various types of CNNs are used for static tasks. For classification,
CNNs                                        containing convolution layers, pooling layers, and 
fully connected
layers are used. These CNN models are usually referred to as backbone
CNNs. Commonly used backbone CNNs include AlexNet, VGG, ResNet,

etc. (Alzubaidi et al., 2021). For localization and classification, CNN
models                                                are usually composed of backbone CNNs, necks, 
and heads.
Commonly used localization and classification CNN models include Fast
R-CNN, YOLO, etc. (Liu et al., 2020). For semantic segmentation and


instance segmentation, CNNs with encoder–decoder architectures are
typically used. The commonly used semantic segmentation and
instance segmentation CNNs include U-Net (Garcia-Garcia et al., 2018),
YOLACT (Tian et al., 2021), etc.

Dynamic tasks are typically fulfilled using the combination of CNNs
and                                              RNNs. CNNs extract features from video frames, and 
RNNs

determine the output by considering the features in consecutive frames
of                                              videos. A commonly used RNN is gated recurrent 
units and long
short-term memory (Alzubaidi et al., 2021).

8.3 The Components of Smart Machine Vision

Typical smart machine vision applications in agriculture, forestry,
fishery,                                              and animal husbandry include four important 
components:
image acquisition, machine learning, database, and user access (Fig.
8.2). Image acquisition is the first step in machine vision

implementation. Images are collected by using cellphones manually or
by                                               using stationary cameras automatically. Typically, 
if the application
requires only one image, cellphones are used for image acquisition. By
contrast, if the application requires videos, stationary cameras are used
for image acquisition.


Fig. 8.2 Machine vision in agriculture implementation flow

The component of machine learning includes five steps, namely
image                                         collection, image augmentation, model architecture 
selection,
model training, and model performance evaluation. To train a deep

learning model, it is recommended to acquire at least 500 images for
each                                           category. The images are next annotated. The 
annotated images
are then split into training, validation, and test with a ratio of typically
8:1:1. Image augmentation (e.g., flipping and rotation) is subsequently
applied to the annotated training images to generalize the images and
improve the robustness of the model to be trained. A CNN model for a

specific task (e.g., classification, localization and classification, semantic
segmentation, and instance segmentation) is then chosen. The training
of the model involves hyperparameter selection. Typical
hyperparameters include learning rate and weight decay. Appropriate
hyperparameters improve the performance of the model to be trained.
After the model is trained, test images are applied to the trained model
to evaluate the model performance. The aforementioned procedure

completes the component of machine learning.

A database is usually used in smart machine vision applications too.

The database is an essential component because the data for model


training (acquired images and labels of images) are stored in the
database. The database can be used to store the images uploaded by
end users too.

Another essential component of smart machine vision is user
access. Typically, a microservice is established to serve as a bridge
between the internal system (i.e., the trained model and database) and
end users. Through the microservice, the trained model and database
can                                              be accessed by both internal and end users. The 
end users can also
provide new data through user access.

8.4 Examples of Smart Machine Vision in

Agriculture, Forestry, Fishery, and Animal Husbandry

Smart machine vision has been applied to the fields of agriculture,

forestry, fishery, and animal husbandry. This is especially an increasing
trend.                                              Smart machine vision alleviates the issue of 
labor shortage. With
smart machine vision, work patterns are changed, and work loadings
are reduced. Below are some examples of smart machine vision.

Crops are vulnerable to pests and diseases, environmental changes,
and                                             storage conditions, resulting in economic losses. 
The application of
smart machine vision is an easier and faster solution to control the
quality of crops. Numerous studies have applied smart machine vision
to identify plant diseases and pests (Abade et al., 2021) and superficial
damages (Li et al., 2020). These applications help farmers to reduce

economic loss and increase production.

Forests play an essential role in food security and daily necessities
(Sunderland                                                et al., 2013). People who live near 
tropical forests can
acquire food surrounding specific tree species and even on the tree.

Also, different trees can be made into a wide variety of daily necessities.
Studies were conducted to identify consumable wood species. Yang et
al. (2019) differentiated between morphologically similar species in

genus Cinnamomum (Lauraceae). The species C. osmophloeum yields
cinnamaldehyde and is used as a herbal plant. Pelletier et al. (2019)
and Schiefer et al. (2020) identified tree species and mapped tree
species in a forest, respectively (Hamedianfar et al., 2022), which can
help those living nearby to reliably acquire food and earn a living.


Fish is a major source of protein globally. However, the biological
sustainability                                                of oceans has been brought to 
attention in recent years.

Smart machine vision was applied to identify species of marine

organisms to prevent overfishing or inadvertent illegal fishing (Aguzzi
et                                                al., 2020). Also, the length and species of 
harvested fish, which is

required by some fisheries management organizations, can be

estimated and recorded using smart machine vision (Tseng & Kuo,

2020; Tseng et al., 2020). Aquaculture is another way to raise seafood.
Certain studies evaluated the frequency of fish feeding using smart
machine vision (Zhao et al., 2021). Shrimp body length was estimated
for feeding management using smart machine vision (Lai et al., 2022).

Economic animals are another major source of protein. Smart
machine vision can be applied to alleviate the need for patrols and
manual observation in animal farming. Related studies include a
monitoring system for detecting sick chickens (Ojo et al., 2022), an
observation system for identifying the tail-biting behaviors of pigs
(Chen et al., 2021), an automatic monitoring of newborn piglets

tracking and lactating frequency of sows (Ho et al., 2021), and an
inspection system for identifying lameness behaviors of cows (Mahmud
et                                                   al., 2021).

8.5 Conclusion

Food production is now affected by labor shortage globally. To meet the
demand of food, smart machine vision is applied in agriculture, forestry,
fishery, and animal husbandry to develop automatic solutions that can
replace human power. The whole process can be simplified as image
acquisition, machine learning, database, and user access. With the
application of smart machine vision, farmers can manage their fields

efficiently, harvest richly, and thereby improve food security worldwide.

References

Abade, A., Ferreira, P. A., & de Barros Vidal, F. (2021). Plant diseases
recognition on images using convolutional neural networks: A systematic
review. Computers and Electronics in Agriculture, 185, 106125.


[Crossref]

Aguzzi, J., Chatzievangelou, D., Company, J. B., Thomsen, L., Marini, S.,
Bonofiglio, F., Juanes, F., Rountree, R., Berry, A., Chumbinho, R., Lordan, C.,
Doyle,     J., del Rio, J., Navarro, J., De Leo, F. C., Bahamon, N., Garcı́a, J. A.,
Danovaro,  P. R., Francescangeli, M., …, Gaughan, P. (2020). The potential of
video imagery from worldwide cabled observatory networks to provide
information supporting fish-stock and biodiversity assessment. ICES Journal of
Marine Science, 77(7–8), 2396–2410.

Alzubaidi, L., Zhang, J., Humaidi, A. J., Al-Dujaili, A., Duan, Y., Al-Shamma, O.,
Santamarı́a, J., Fadhel, M. A., Al-Amidie, M., & Farhan, L. (2021). Review of deep
learning: Concepts, CNN architectures, challenges, applications, future
directions. Journal of Big Data, 8(1), 1–74.

[Crossref]

Chen, C., Zhu, W., & Norton, T. (2021). Behaviour recognition of pigs and cattle:
Journey from computer vision to deep learning. Computers and Electronics in
Agriculture, 187, 106255.

[Crossref]

Garcia-Garcia, A., Orts-Escolano, S., Oprea, S., Villena-Martinez, V., Martinez-
Gonzalez, P., & Garcia-Rodriguez, J. (2018). A survey on deep learning
techniques   for image and video semantic segmentation. Applied Soft Computing,
70, 41–65.

[Crossref]

Hamedianfar, A., Mohamedou, C., Kangas, A., & Vauhkonen, J. (2022). Deep
learning for forest inventory and planning: A critical review on the remote
sensing approaches so far and prospects for further applications. Forestry: An
International Journal of Forest Research, 95, 451.

[Crossref]

Ho, K. Y., Tsai, Y. J., & Kuo, Y. F. (2021). Automatic monitoring of lactation
frequency of sows and movement quantification of newborn piglets in
farrowing houses using convolutional neural networks. Computers and

Electronics in Agriculture, 189, 106376.
[Crossref]

Lai, P. C., Lin, H. Y., Lin, J. Y., Hsu, H. C., Chu, Y. N., Liou, C. H., & Kuo, Y. F. (2022).

Automatic measuring shrimp body length using CNN and an underwater
imaging system. Biosystems Engineering, 221, 224–235.


[Crossref]

Li, Z., Guo, R., Li, M., Chen, Y., & Li, G. (2020). A review of computer vision
technologies for plant phenotyping. Computers and Electronics in Agriculture,
176, 105672.

[Crossref]

Liu, L., Ouyang, W., Wang, X., Fieguth, P., Chen, J., Liu, X., & Pietikäinen, M.
(2020). Deep learning for generic object detection: A survey. International
Journal of Computer Vision, 128(2), 261–318.

[Crossref]

Mahmud, M. S., Zahid, A., Das, A. K., Muzammil, M., & Khan, M. U. (2021). A
systematic literature review on deep learning applications for precision cattle
farming. Computers and Electronics in Agriculture, 187, 106313.

[Crossref]

Ojo, R. O., Ajayi, A. O., Owolabi, H. A., Oyedele, L. O., & Akanbi, L. A. (2022).
Internet of Things and Machine Learning techniques in poultry health and
welfare management: A systematic literature review. Computers and Electronics
in Agriculture, 200, 107266.

[Crossref]

Pelletier, C., Webb, G. I., & Petitjean, F. (2019). Temporal convolutional neural
network for the classification of satellite image time series. Remote Sensing,
11(5), 523.

[Crossref]

Rumelhart, D. E., Hinton, G. E., & Williams, R. J. (1985). Learning internal
representations by error propagation. California Univ San Diego La Jolla Inst for
Cognitive Science.

[Crossref]

Schiefer, F., Kattenborn, T., Frick, A., Frey, J., Schall, P., Koch, B., & Schmidtlein, S.
(2020). Mapping forest tree species in high resolution UAV-based RGB-imagery
by means of convolutional neural networks. ISPRS Journal of Photogrammetry

and Remote Sensing, 170, 205–215.
[Crossref]

Sunderland, T., Powell, B., Ickowitz, A., Foli, S., Pinedo-Vasquez, M., Nasi, R., &
Padoch, C. (2013). Food security and nutrition. Center for International Forestry
Research (CIFOR).


Tian, D., Han, Y., Wang, B., Guan, T., Gu, H., & Wei, W. (2021). Review of object
instance segmentation based on deep learning. Journal of Electronic Imaging,
31(4), 041205.

[Crossref]

Tseng, C. H., & Kuo, Y. F. (2020). Detecting and counting harvested fish and
identifying fish types in electronic monitoring system videos using deep
convolutional neural networks. ICES Journal of Marine Science, 77(4), 1367–
1378.

[Crossref]

Tseng, C. H., Hsieh, C. L., & Kuo, Y. F. (2020). Automatic measurement of the
body length of harvested fish using convolutional neural networks. Biosystems
Engineering, 189, 36–47.

[Crossref]

United Nations. (2022). Revision of world population prospects. Author. Retrieved
from https://population.un.org/wpp/

United Nations. Department of Economic and Social Affairs, & United Nations
Conference on Trade and Development. (2022). World economic situation and
prospects 2022. Author.

[Crossref]

Yang, H. W., Hsu, H. C., Yang, C. K., Tsai, M. J., & Kuo, Y. F. (2019). Differentiating
between morphologically similar species in genus Cinnamomum (Lauraceae)
using deep convolutional neural networks. Computers and Electronics in

Agriculture, 162, 739–748.
[Crossref]

Zhao, S., Zhang, S., Liu, J., Wang, H., Zhu, J., Li, D., & Zhao, R. (2021). Application
of machine learning in intelligent fish aquaculture: A review. Aquaculture, 540,
736724.

[Crossref]


© The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd. 2023

T. Ahamed (ed.), IoT and AI in Agriculture

https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-19-8113-5_9

9. Artificial Intelligence in Agriculture:
Commitment to Establish Society 5.0: An
Analytical Concepts Mapping for Deep
Learning Application

Victor Massaki Nakaguchi¹ and Tofael Ahamed²

(1) Graduate School of Science and Technology, University of Tsukuba,

Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan

(2) Faculty of Life & Environmental Sciences, University of Tsukuba,
Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan

Tofael Ahamed

Email: tofael.ahamed.gp@u.tsukuba.ac.jp

Abstract

Artificial intelligence (AI) was defined as a key component for the

establishment of the Society 5.0. AI’s rapid ascension and incorporation
in                                               all sectors of human activities is becoming the 
background of
innovation. Therefore, the solution for many complex problems
specially regarding to agri-food industry dynamics and climate change.
Society 5.0 is an approach of the future society considering a projection
over global population and the aspects related to sustainability and
social welfare. AI is not a novel theme as it has been discussed from
many decades ago. However, Big Data associated with highly efficient
algorithms and powerful processing units are pushing AI into our

reality. Prosper societies were built up above a solid agricultural base
with well-organized systems of production and distribution, including
all phases of industrial revolution as well. The advent of climate change
and                                               its consequences over crops is demanding 
innovative solutions to


keep on increasing yield while mitigating the adverse effects on the

ecosystem. The aim of this chapter is to provide an analytical concept
mapping and framework about AI-based learning systems, in a quasi-
philosophical way to establish Society 5.0 centered on deep learning
techniques for agricultural solutions, specially addressing labor
shortages and management of limited bioresources worldwide.

Keywords Artificial Intelligence – Deep learning – Digital agriculture –
Autonomous machinery – Society 5.0

9.1 Introduction

Global overpopulation is a big concern for agricultural production

considering it is necessary to enhance yield besides considering the

effects of climate change over crops and its impacts on the ecosystem.
In                                          addition to it, the rural population is aging and not 
being replaced at
the same rate, which represents an opportunity for innovation

especially in the fields of management and automation of machinery.

During the last two decades, data and information have been

exponentially created and processed in a speed that have never seen
before, besides that fast connectivity between countries and regions
has overcome physical barriers, thus creating an inter-dependency
among them including high flux of materials, goods, and people.

Artificial intelligence (AI) came into hype and its rapid adoption in all
sectors of our daily lives is transforming the lifestyle of people around
world. Recommendation systems, virtual assistants, specific tasks

robots, smart gadgets, and fully connected systems creating meta data
all                                                the time are just a few examples of the presence 
of this global trend,
which also represents the change in habits and mentality of our society
as well.

Historically, all human societies were developed based on local food
security, and the improvement of agricultural production has been

representing an upgrade version of that societies. The first one was

composed of people able to hunt and collect fruits, the society 2.0 were
made                                                 of agrarian communities able to grow their own 
food and

exchange the excess, in the society 3.0, agricultural goods and natural


resources were transformed in manufactured products in large scale
(industrial society), and the contemporary society (information

society) was established side by side with green revolution, responsible
to                                           provide food, fibers, and energy for the booming 
population (Fig.

9.1).

Fig. 9.1 From society 1.0–5.0, the main characteristics of each in a historical
context

The agriculture of the twenty-first century is passing through a
digital transformation where processes and management are being
fully automatized and the immediate effect is a high gain efficiency
yield, costs reduction and by consequence, the sustainability of

production. By incorporating the industry 4.0 elements inside farms,
customers around the world can be aware of important aspects of the
foods and fibers they are consuming, especially regarding traceability,
quality, and standardization. On the other hand, farmers can

compensate labor shortages by using robots, autonomous machines,
and                                     computational management systems. Moreover, by associating 
geo
statistics methods, sensors (proximal and remote), and information

technology (IT), the entire management of farming in real time can be
done                                              taking in consideration the spatial and temporal 
variability, which
is contributing for precise use of inputs and bioresources in agriculture
production (precision agriculture).


In this sense, the Society 5.0 has been proposed by the government
of                                             Japan (CSTI, 2016) as a prospect plan for the global 
society linked
with sustainability and community-based welfare to reduce social gaps
and improve life quality of the people (Fukuda, 2020), in this concept
AI-based technologies innovations, IoT (internet of things), Big Data,
and Blockchain, are fundamental components to its establishment.

Several challenges are involved in the implementation of this fifth
version of our global community, principally those related to
diminishing differences among countries development. In most of

African countries, for instance, the last green revolution has not fully
arrived yet and people are still dying by starvation, while in developed
countries farming is getting into a completely industrial plants such as
vertical farms and agribusiness stock market. Another challenge is to
disrupt the AI paradigm, which means to make AI-based technologies a
tool to be used for improvement of human’s life quality including all
people                                               in the process equally, for example, since the 
first systems are
being programed and trained by humans, some applications may

contain human inherit cultural behavior like preconception, racism, and
political stands.

AI-associated technologies may sound like a magic box, where the
solution comes from after a single touch, however, it is not so easy as it
looks like, the advancements in this field are being made gradually. In
fact, deep learning (DL) is mainly responsible to bring AI to the edge,
machines mounted with computer vision (CV) systems can perform

tasks such as navigation systems for self-driving vehicles, object

detection, mapping of behavior patterns, natural language processing
(NLP),                                               and augmentation and virtualization of the 
reality (as a part of
Society 5.0). AI-based learning technologies produced a set of new

applications to make possible a new revolution in agriculture. Due to its
high capacity to process a great amount of data in real time, this is one
of the eligible innovations to keep on upsetting Malthusian theory of
population, once it permits through data management the

improvement of sustainable production of food, fibers, and energy
besides                                         enhance the logistics and customer experiences for 
the coming
years.


9.2 AI Mapping Concept

AI is a discipline inside Computer Sciences intended to develop systems
able to mimic human’s ability to resolve problems, its origin is traced

from the middle of the last century as a theoretical area discussed by
philosophers, mathematicians, and computer scientists. When AI was
proposed by early 1950s, not enough technology was available at the

time to bring it to the spotlight, nevertheless, the exponential progress
in                                    microelectronics, informatics, and engineering over the last 
decades,
has allowed the arising of big data, high power processing units and
advanced heuristic algorithms, a combination of these three made AI
overcome its last winter and started to bloom for countless tasks and
utilities.

AI aggregates many fields of study such as neural networks (NNs),
evolutionary computation, and fuzzy logic. The employment of these
fields we can find in data mining, CV, NLP systems, and autonomous
machinery. AI’s core uses machine learning (ML) algorithms which have
revolutionized data analytics, especially for unstructured and
multidimensional data, that by the way, represents the majority volume
of data transferred throughout the internet. The output of ML
algorithms is a model (Fig. 9.2), and the models of ML can be created by
using at least one of three types of learning mechanisms: Supervised

learning (predictive models), unsupervised learning (descriptive
models),                                           and reinforcement learning models.

Fig. 9.2 Definition of model in ML


Supervised learning in mathematical ways refer to classification or
regression operations, the learning process is composed by two phases,
training and testing as we are going to see further in this chapter, but in
an effortless way to understand the concept, it has the presence of the
“supervisor” character (labeled data), responsible to guide the learning
process.

As for unsupervised learning method, the model is generated from a
description of the whole data by using Association, Grouping

(Clustering), Outliers Detection, Standard sequences, and
Summarization                                       algorithms, it requires post-analysis of the 
model to
understand what the machine has learned, for unstructured data such
as big data, and multidimensional data from radiometric sensors for
instance, unsupervised learning algorithms are powerful tools.

Reinforcement learning is a class of ML algorithms where the
system learns from its own experience due to interaction with the

environment, this self-exploratory approach is based on penalties and
rewards                                                as guidance according to each assertive and 
failure behavior,
respectively, when the machine is learning is trying to reach the given
objective.

DL is a concept when applying NNs-based decision support systems,
it                                              can be seen as a variation approach of ML based 
algorithms, the main
difference from ML methods remains in the fact that DL algorithms

generate a model by self-learning the entire process, including the steps
of feature extraction of inputs, adjustment of weights and bias. Thus, it
is                                             specially used to deal with big data analysis such 
as image

classification, object detection, object segmentation, and natural speech
processing.

In fact, ML techniques look after ways to solve problems by applying
principally statistics and linear algorithms, on the other hand, DL looks
like a human based approach dealing with nonlinear problems. For
agriculture and livestock production, several applications including DL
solutions are related especially for CV applications, for example,

autonomous machinery, plant phenotyping, and unmanned aerial

vehicles (UAVs) image analysis, cattle management, and animal welfare
establishment.


9.3 Deep Learning (DL) and Neural Networks (NNs)

NNs are the main topic of study in DL, Artificial Neural Networks
(ANNs)                                             is a common name when referring to NNs for 
computer
systems, it was summarized by Robert Hecht-Nielsen (1992) as a

parallel and distributed processing structure consisting of elements
connected                                      unidirectionally where the information is processed 
from
external inputs. ANNs emerged in a context where complex problems
could no longer be solved by using pre-determined algorithms, e.g.,
image classification, where a small angle variation in the same image
may change the whole values of pixels.

The ANNs was inspired by studies regarding the connection
mechanism                                             of the biological neuron (Synaptic 
connections), McCulloch
and Pitts (1943), proposed a mathematical model for biological

neurons with which are connected each other receiving and

transmitting information as electrical pulses with some level of

processing, consequently depending on the processing result the next
neuron                                              may either be activate or not (threshold 
logic). In 1958 Frank
Rosenblatt introduced a model called perceptron (Fig. 9.3), which was
designed to mimic some of the principles of intelligent systems in

general. This model became the basis of future generations of ANNs, as
recurrent neural networks (RNNs) and convolutional neural networks
(CNNs) among others, besides that it is considered one of the very first
feedforward NNs.


Fig. 9.3  One-layer perceptron model proposed by Rosenblatt (1958). u = the
linear function as described, Ɵ is called bias, is the factor that represents the
threshold for trigging the activation function

The working processing of an artificial neuron can be seen in Fig.

9.3, analog to biological neuron synapses, the result from the aggregate
function                                            produces a value that feeds the step-function 
(Eq. 9.1) from
which may give an output (Exciting synapse) or not (Inhibition
synapse), the weights are responsible to amplify or reduce the input
signal to the step-function, the process of adjusting weights is called
“Training.”

(9.1)

The one-layer perceptron is a good model to solve linear problems,
however, for nonlinear problems such as simple xor logic, it cannot

predict output values, since it is impossible to segregate correspondent
values                                                 in only one dimension. The solution in these 
cases was the
insertion of multiple layers, or also called hidden layers [multilayer
perceptron (MLP)], in this type of ANNs the output value of one neuron
may feed the input of the next neuron (Fig. 9.4). Besides that, other
activation functions were introduced for better modeling the output of
neurons such as sigmoid function (Eq. 9.2), hyperbolic tangent (Eq.


9.3), rectified linear unit (ReLU—Eq. 9.4), leaky ReLU (Eq. 9.5), and so
on.

Fig. 9.4 MLP model with three hidden layers. In MLPs each input value
connects with other neurons or layers depending on the result from activation
function

The choice of activation functions depends on what prediction value
the                                               ANN is being trained for, different activations 
functions can be used
in the same architecture, for example, the hyperbolic tangent (tanh) is
usually used in the hidden layers due to its range from −1 to 1, while

the sigmoid function is often used for probabilities outputs, ReLU is
nowadays one of the most used activation functions in ANN intended
for images recognition systems due to their highly computational

efficiency to not activate neurons with negative values.

(9.2)

(9.3)


(9.4)

(9.5)

9.3.1 Principles of the ANN Learning Process

ANNs are supervised learning models, therefore, it can be simply
understood                                              as a heuristic system that learns by doing 
mathematical
equations and adjusting its results to reach the correct answer. The

overall objective is to provide mechanisms for a computational system
to extract, recognize, and classify patterns in multidimensional data
with                                        satisfactory level of accuracy.

The learning process can be divided into two steps or phases:

training and testing (Fig. 9.5). Different datasets must be used as input
values to feed each step, however, in both cases we have labeled data

(Images, sounds, etc.) that contains information about type, name, and
position of the object that ANN is being modeling for. The labeled data
are examples provided by humans to machines, like teaching kids by
showing them an object and telling its respective name, e.g., when kids
see, touch, and try the object, on the next time they see a similar one,
based on their previous experiences, they can recognize it by
associating the shapes, colors, textures, even the taste. As for ANNs

these experiences are the adjustments of weights and extraction of
features.


Fig. 9.5  Supervised learning chart flow, notice that blocks represent only the
process, not the neurons associated with

The training step is the tuning process to adjust the parameter
“weights” to fit the inputs to the “correct answers” (Labeled data

—“Supervisor”). The testing process is regarding the verification of the
model assertiveness, this step “says” to the ANN how much the

prediction is correct, and on which “direction” should the ANN goes to
reduce the error. So basically, we say that an ANN have learned when

the system has achieved a high precision ability to predict an object

class or when it has decreased the assessment error at the minimum.
The                                           most of ANNs are trained using backpropagation 
algorithm,

besides that, the original work introduced backpropagation algorithm
as                                              a NN too, it consists of a sequence pace to update 
the weights after
calculating the overall error (we call the cost function, which is the
difference between “correct answer” or predicted value of true class

and the obtained output value) the error is then multiplied by the slope
of                                                the activation function and finally 
backpropagated to the previous

layers.

The aim of this algorithm is to reduce the cost function at each
interaction                                               (or epoch in DL language), 
backpropagation algorithm is
seen as a descent algorithm as it looks to find the direction where the
slope is minimum (Fig. 9.6). Here, two parameters are important to

control how much should the weights be adjusted and for what
direction                                           (either backward or forward from the previous 
calculated
weigh) it should go to: learning rate and momentum, the first one is
regarding the “step size” that next weights should be decreased or
increased for (As far from the minimum point on the gradient the

learning rate should be big, as closer to the minimum it should be
small). The momentum is about the direction the weights should go
(vector moment) to reach the minimum slope. Note that the angular

variation to calculate the step size is defined according to the primary
derivative                                                  of a point in relation to the previous 
one, that is how learning
rate is adjusted in practice.


Fig. 9.6 Learning process using backpropagation algorithm

We should point out that a model pursuit should be able to

generalize an object with a certain level of accuracy, good models are
those                                            capable of recognizing an unseen object as well as 
humans do.
However, depending on complexity conditions of exposure, including
occlusions and distortions, some objects are difficult even for us to do

so, in other words, we should not have an ANN model to fit 100% in the
training dataset, in DL language we do not want the model to overfit the
training data during the learning process. When the model overfit the


training dataset, it means the machine learned how to exactly describe
the                                             dataset given to it but in practice it may fail to 
predict new inputs.
We need a model that can predict the objects of study based on similar
characteristics among them.

DL techniques are specially used for image classification, detection,
and                                        segmentation (Fig. 9.7) as mentioned before. However, 
the

challenge of program computer systems able to mimic human vision is
not new, and the field of CV has been explored from decades ago,
including several studies on mammals’ vision proposed by Hubel and
Wiesel (1959), which in fact, constituted the basis to understand the
vision processing and hierarchy model of imaging recognition.

Fig. 9.7  Distinct types of models for image recognition. Classification models
predict the class name. Detection models find the object inside the image and
draw a box on it. Segmentation models in this case, instance segmentation, put
together segmentation of a pixel and object detection to individualize objects
in    the image

Kunihiko Fukushima (1980) proposed an ANN that he called
Neocognitron,                                                 it was an updated version of his 
previous work
Cognitron (Fukushima, 1975), in both works, the idea was to develop a
system able to learn how to recognize image patterns, his hypothesis

was that a successful computer vision would open the gates for further
comprehension on human’s vision. He considered in his work an
association of previous hypothesis on patterns hierarchical recognition
such as proposed by Hubel and Wiesel (1962, 1965), Gestalt theory


(Wertheimer, 1938), and others. The main idea was that a biological
brain recognizes an image by associating features of them layer by

layer, from simple presence/absence of light and shapes to complex
figures                                              in the output layers.

Many years after K. Fukushima’s work, Lecun et al. (1998)

introduced a computer vision system able to recognize with a proficient
level                                                 of accuracy written-digits, using CNN and 
gradient-based learning
algorithm (Backpropagation), their work introduced a new generation
of NNs once it could get over traditional CV methods for image

classification based on ML and statistics approaches. Thus, reopened
the                                         interest and investments for DL industrial applications 
for images
recognition through automatic learning instead of hand-designed
algorithm. Currently, CV is a field of study in DL that reunites different
science expertise (Fig. 9.8).

Fig. 9.8 Computer vision system is a field in DL that reunites several sciences

9.4 DL at the Edge with CNNs


Cameras are the most popular type of sensor present in our daily life;
they                                               are present in almost every place we can 
imagine. Over the years,
the technology involved in these devices grew up exponentially, the
improvement on spatial and radiometric resolution became a paradox

for CV systems. The good side is regarding the exploratory opportunity
for                                      documentation details, especially to capture wide angles 
and several
wavelength frequencies beyond human’s vision capacity such as infra-
red bands. On the other hand, as for high resolution types ensure to

capture images with millions of pixels, further sophisticated methods
including                                               best algorithms and faster processing power 
units to analyze
the images are continually under on-growing demand. Comparing
LeNet-5 in 1998, for instance, the input images had a dimension of

28 × 28 pixels, but currently, a 5 Mega Pixel camera for instance

(common camera aboard on any ordinary Smartphone) can produce an
image with 2592 × 1944 pixels, becoming a challenging factor to
imaging processing. Fortunately, fresh solutions to get around these
issues have been proposed during the last two decades, including new
generations of graphic processing cards and better ANNs as well.

In CV systems, cameras are the source of data (input data) and
actively                                         participate in the training and deployment of 
AI-based systems.

Over the years cameras has become accessible for everyone at an

affordable price, the cost to produce self-datasets of images is too high,
due to time consuming and storage costs, leading DL players to use

common sources of data to train their applications. There are several
free                                               use dataset images available on the internet to 
serve as a

parameter to evaluate performance of CNNs models, the notorious and
most appreciated are ImageNet (Stanford vision Lab), MS COCO

(Provided by Microsoft®), and Open Images (Google LLC.).

Image classification and object detection are the most exciting areas
of                                                 CV these days, in truth, this is the area where 
most of the efforts in
DL have been concentrating so far. Enormous advancements have been
made during the last 10 years since AlexNet (a type of CNN developed
by Alex Krizhevsky et al., 2017) won the 2012 ImageNet Large Scale

Visual Recognition Challenge (ILSVRC). By using the approach of
multiple                                           graphic processing units (GPUs) for parallel 
processing, the


ReLUs activation function for modeling the neurons outputs and by
increasing the training dataset by using image augmentation, their
work became the turning point for the new generation of NNs that
followed in sequence.

CNN is an ANN with many layers where convolutional operations
are                                            applied in some of that to extract features and 
produce a model that
can predict an object with certain level of accuracy (Classification) or a
position of an object inner an image or frame (object detection). By

convolution, it is defined as a mathematical operation between two
functions that produces a third function, in DL it stands for matrix

multiplications (each pixel has a value associated to it, each value varies
from                                                  0 to 255 for each RGB color band).

In image classification algorithms, CNN is used to extract features of
objects on each frame during the training process. The mechanism of

feature extractions is done by applying “filters” (called Kernels), these
filters                                               can highlight main characteristics of 
pictures such as contours,
edges, shadows, lines, and so on.

In the convolutional layers a grid of pixels is multiplied by the
Kernel                                             and the matrix resultant is used as input values 
to create the
“feature maps,” this one is a special layer that contains the relevant

information to classify each class of image the CNN is being trained for
(Fig. 9.9).


Fig. 9.9 CNN common architecture. In this example, a CNN with two
convolutional and two fully connected layers. A kernel 3 × 3 is applied on the
first  layer, in AlexNet, for example, they used a 11 × 11 kernel

From 2012, year by year improvements were made, introducing
new                                      advancements in CNNs architectures such as ZFNet (Zeiler &

Fergus, 2014), VGGNet (Simonyan et al., 2014), GoogLeNet “Inception”
(Szegedy                                                 et al., 2015), and MobileNet (Howard et 
al., 2017). In 2015,
ResNet (Kaiming He et al., 2016) was introduced and until now is one
of the most used CNNs for object detection around the world. It won
some competitions on ILSVRC reaching the minimum of 3.57% of error
rate.

Many other CNNs are available for CV applications and the choice
depends                                                on the final goal, type of dataset, and 
power processing
hardware. Historically, CNNs are heavy, and the computing is dense, not
suitable for ordinary computers. Considering that, at the present, the

greatest challenge for CNN architecture is to make it portable and
suitable for low-end devices such as smartphones and nano computers.

9.5 Deep Learning Algorithms for Object Detection


Image classification using CNNs proved to be faster comparing to other
classification algorithms such as K-Nearest Neighbors (KNN), recently,
specialized algorithms for image classification and object detection
have been proposed to support CNNs to learn faster, especially when
dealing with dense processing (huge datasets). A revolution for

classification/object detection using CNNs was the region-based CNN
or R-CNN (2014) and its family, including fast R-CNN (Girshick, 2015),
these                                         innovative approaches introduced the selective search 
method to
generate region proposals before computation of feature maps, these
region proposals hold the object to be classified (has the bounding box
“b-box” included), that means it contains the object of interest inside

one of the 2000 regions the image was divided into (the regions in this
case represent the image cut in 2000 parts, each part is one region).

The problem with these novel approaches was the low speed, making it
impossible to execute real-time applications. However, a new

generation of R-CNN called faster R-CNN (Ren et al., 2015), which does
not                                                use the region selective search method before 
CNN, was released to
enhance the speed, it has introduced the region proposed network

(RPN), which is a type of extra-CNN aggregated to the CNN to obtain the
feature maps after CNN calculation (See details in Chap. 7).

The introduction of faster R-CNN makes possible the development
of                                       navigation systems supported by real-time CV, although 
this model
requires high performance devices such as powerful GPUs and a lot of
physical memory, the models provided by faster R-CNN are one of the
most accurate available now (something strongly desirable especially
for autonomous navigation). For agriculture purposes, especially in

orchards, navigation systems based on CV are becoming the best
alternatives to overcome limitations of systems based on traditional
Global Navigation Satellite Systems (GNSS), especially under closed
canopy                                            (bad precision due to interference and 
scintillations of radio
wavelength signals).

Guidance mechanisms based on CV are important for agricultural
machines to defeat one of the most limitations imposed by the

environment: the light dependency. Machines equipped with navigation
systems                                            including IR sensors can operate at night (Fig. 
9.10), this


characteristic allows gain in crop calendar, and autonomous night work
shift, therefore optimizing the harvesting season.

Fig. 9.10  Faster R-CNN object detection associated with thermal camera under
different light conditions for navigation systems in a Japanese pear orchard

By 2017 Mask R-CNN (He et al., 2017) came upon the stage

presenting semantic segmentation and object detection joint together
as                                          Instance segmentation (Fig. 9.11), this new model is 
being explored
in diverse tasks including harvesting robotic arms systems (see details
in Chap. 11) and cattle monitoring for livestock management.

Fig. 9.11 Mask R-CNN instance segmentation for Apple harvesting automation
in orchard


Currently, the state of the art for image classification and object
detection                                               is the “You Only Look Once” (YOLO) neural 
network
algorithm, YOLO is a model proposed in 2015 by Joseph Redmon, its
concept is similar to the R-CNN regarding the region proposing,

however, YOLO visualize the entire image during training and detection
steps                                                and compute the bounding boxes directly in the 
image using

regression algorithms, YOLO introduces the idea of dividing the frame
into S × S number of grids, so basically, if the probability of object of
interest                                               is higher to be in a cell grid, this cell 
grid becomes responsible
for prediction of the object (see details in Chap. 9). Since its release in
2015 YOLO has reached several versions, being one of the most stable,
accurate, and fast models for object detection (Fig. 9.12). Wang et al.
(2022) listed six basic characteristics of a system to be considered as
state of the art in deep learning, which includes faster and strong

networks, effective integration methods, accuracy, robust loss function,
efficient                                               label assignment technique, and training 
efficiency. The

community of DL developers around the world have been improving
YOLO family and releasing new upgraded versions online periodically.


Fig. 9.12  YOLOv4 Object Detection in Apple Orchard for Apple Harvesting
Vision Machine

It is important to note that CNNs are ANNs used for extraction of
inputs features while DL algorithms for object detection such as Faster


R-CNN, Single Shot Multibox Detector “SSD” (Liu et al., 2016), YOLO
(Redmon                                              et al., 2016) are specialized DL algorithms 
for object

detection. In other words, CNNs and Classification/Object

Detection/Segmentation models are two separated blocks that work
together as part of an algorithm, that’s why we say CNN is the
“backbone” of DL algorithms.

Object detection algorithms architectures can be grouped into
dense predictions and sparse prediction types, the common

architecture of an object detection algorithm is composed by similar
blocks for clear understanding (Fig. 9.13).

Fig. 9.13  Deep learning algorithms common architecture for object detection

Object detection applications are limitless as it can be employed in
every real-time CV system when tasks involve detecting objects, sorting,
and tracking. Countless operations such as quality control, grading (Fig.
9.14) and packing of fruits, vegetables, eggs, and animal parts can be

fully automatized in post harvesting procedures. Besides that, CV based
on-the-go                                            machines can distribute inputs (fertilizers, 
pesticides)

directly on targets, as localized treatments, contributing to
sustainability of agricultural production.


Fig. 9.14  YOLOv4 object detection in Quail eggs industry for quality
management and grading automation

Another great opportunity to enhance the administration of rural
properties                                                 is the adoption of DL based CV in 
central control
management systems, as well as implemented in cities to monitor cars
traffic and detect abnormal behavior of people it can be incorporated in
agricultural fields to detect abnormal movements of animals or people
inside lands, presence of wild bodily and individual monitoring of
animals in flock, thus associate with animal welfare to stablish

precision livestock farming (PLF).

Moreover, CV platforms can also assist traffic control of machines
(Fig. 9.15) using tracking algorithms, best logistic planning can be

enabled automatically by concentrating management tasks such as
machines status, displacement, and maintenance prevention based on
data of engines and mechanisms, all broadcasted in real time.


Fig. 9.15  YOLOv4 object detection application for machine traffic control
systems. In this example, YOLOv4 is used to qualify the distance between
harvesting machines and truck transporter to prevent accidents

Systems designed to control traffic of vehicles, including tractors
traffic                                              are important to establish the concept of 
“rail” roads on

production fields, as much bigger machines have become over time, the
weight associated to them highlighted the problem of soil compaction.

The idea of traffic control is important to reduce soil loss, and by

consequence reduce heavy machinery operations like plowing and
subsoiling. The direct plantation system introduced a few decades ago
in big crops such as corn and soybeans in systematic rotation of

cultivations have contributed to reduce the number of tractor

operations in the same field, however, several machinery operations are
fundamentally mandatory, including sowing, spraying, and harvesting,

this last one usually is responsible to most of damage onto soil
structure                                            because often are made in partnership with 
truck trailers that
often use normal set of tires, non-adequate to farm fields.


9.6 Conclusions: DL Serving a New Agriculture
Revolution

The Society 5.0 consists of the first guidelines to a prospective future
that                                              have already began, if considering that we are 
currently living in
the transition phase from the information society to AI-based society,

many aspects of our daily life are still under debates and development
such                                                as privacy of data, monetary foundation, and 
autonomous
machine safety protocols.

Global issues such as overpopulation, climate change, and
environmental degradation are topics that demand immediate

attention and active plans. Fortunately, these thematic have one

common variable: the agriculture. There is a global consensus that best
practices in agriculture can lead to the solution of those problems once
setting up production to high efficiency use of bioresources and inputs
we may reduce adverse impacts on the ecosystem caused principally by
deposit of wastes and bad management of fields.

AI in agriculture is a vast topic that includes many fields of science,
DL                                           methods have gained attention recently due to its 
human vision
sense approach. Countless innovations are being reported for
machinery automation and management of fields. Regardless DL is
quite a new advancement in the field of AI, it has already achieved
astonishing improvements for CV, besides that, commercial solutions
are being created and getting better continually. Innovations related to
intelligent decision-making platforms, robotics and autonomous

vehicles using DL base systems represents an opportunity to overcome
the                                               labor shortages in addition to enhance efficiency 
of agriculture

production around the world, moreover, it stands for our best strategy
to reach sustainability yield for the next decades.

Researchers, companies, and industries are gradually developing
solutions                                           supported by AI associated technologies to 
agricultural tasks.

There are considerable challenges for implementation of such

intelligent systems, especially regarding legal limitations imposed to
systems and applications, robustness, adaptability, connectivity, safety,
and technical support as well. Moreover, the interaction between


human–machine is a real concern since it will continue demanding at
least a few of human supervision to “instruct” the machine to operate
inside the fields or properties, so the role of human as supervisor is
important to avoid machine decision-making modeling based on
mislead bias datasets.

The movement of AI community for the next years is to create
applications                                              less specialists, with which final users 
would be able to

customize features such as software, robots, and machines to their own
necessities, for example, autonomous tractors able to mount
implements and perform real-time adjustments to several tasks like
sowing, spraying, and harvesting in different crops, orchards within a
minimum human intervention. Another global tendency for technology
companies especially hardware manufacturing industry is to reduce the
cost for low-end AI deployment devices along with development of

friendly user frameworks to make DL accessible to non-computer
specialists,                                     allowing common customers to emerge solutions for 
local
scale problems, therefore meeting the requirement to establish the
Society 5.0.

References

Council of Science. (2016). Technology and innovation fifth science and technology
basic plan. Government of Japan. Retrieved from https://www8.cao.go.jp/cstp/

Fukuda, K. (2020). Science, technology, and innovation ecosystem
transformation toward society 5.0. International Journal of Production

Economics, 220, 107460. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijpe.2019.07.033. ISSN

0925-5273.

[Crossref]

Fukushima, K. (1975). Cognitron: A self-organizing multilayered neural
network. Biological Cybernetics, 20(3–4), 121–136. https://doi.org/10.1007/
bf00342633

[Crossref][PubMed]

Fukushima, K. (1980). Neocognitron: A self-organizing neural network model
for a mechanism of pattern recognition unaffected by shift in position.

Biological Cybernetics, 36(4), 193–202. https://doi.org/10.1007/bf00344251


[Crossref][PubMed]

Girshick, R. (2015). Fast R-CNN. In Proceedings of the IEEE International
Conference on Computer Vision (ICCV) (pp. 1440–1448). IEEE.

He, K., Zhang, X., Ren, S., & Sun, J. (2016). Deep residual learning for image
recognition. In IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition
(CVPR). IEEE. https://doi.org/10.1109/CVPR.2016.90

He, K., Gkioxari, G., Dollár, P., & Girshick, R. (2017). Mask r-cnn. In Proceedings of
the IEEE International Conference on Computer Vision (pp. 2961–2969). IEEE.

Hecht-Nielsen, R. (1992). Neural networks for perception. Theory of the
backpropagation neural network. Based on “nonindent” by Robert Hecht-
Nielsen.          In Proceedings of the International Joint Conference on Neural Networks 1,
June 1989 (Vol. 593–611, pp. 65–93). IEEE. https://doi.org/10.1016/b978-0-

12-741252-8.50010-8

Howard, A. G., Zhu, M., Chen, B., Kalenichenko, D., Wang, W., Weyand, T.,
Andreetto, M., & Adam, H. (2017). Mobilenets: Efficient convolutional neural
networks for mobile vision applications. arXiv, 1704.04861.

Hubel, D. H., & Wiesel, T. N. (1959). Receptive fields of single neurones in the
cat’s striate cortex. The Journal of Physiology, 148(3), 574.

[Crossref][PubMed][PubMedCentral]

Hubel, D. H., & Wiesel, T. N. (1962). Receptive fields, binocular interaction, and
functional architecture in cat’s visual cortex. Journal of Physiology (London), 160,
106–154.

[Crossref]

Hubel, D. H., & Wiesel, T. N. (1965). Receptive fields and functional architecture
in two nonstriate visual area (18 and 19) of the cat. Journal of Neurophysiology,
28, 229–289.

[Crossref][PubMed]

Krizhevsky, A., Sutskever, I., & Hinton, G. E. (2017). ImageNet classification with
deep convolutional neural networks. ACM Communications Magazine, 60(6), 84–
90.

[Crossref]


Lecun, Y., Bottou, L., Bengio, Y., & Haffner, P. (1998). Gradient-based learning
applied to document recognition. Proceedings of the IEEE, 86(11), 2278–2324.
https://doi.org/10.1109/5.726791

[Crossref]

Liu, W., Anguelov, D., Erhan, D., Szegedy, C., Reed, S., Cheng-Yang, F., & Berg, A. C.
(2016). Ssd: Single shot multibox detector. In European Conference on Computer
Vision (pp. 21–37). Springer.

McCulloch, W. S., & Pitts, W. (1943). A logical calculus of the ideas immanent in
nervous activity. Bulletin of Mathematical Biophysics, 5, 115–133. https://doi.
org/10.1007/BF02478259

[Crossref]

Redmon, J., Divvala, S., Girshick, R., & Farhadi, A. (2016). You only look once:
Unified, real-time object detection. In IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and
Pattern Recognition (CVPR) (pp. 779–788). IEEE.

Ren, S., He, K., Girshick, R., & Sun, J. (2015). Faster R-CNN: Towards real-time
object detection with region proposal networks. In C. Cortes et al. (Eds.),
Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems (NIPS) (pp. 91–99). MIT
Press.

Rosenblatt, F. (1958). The perceptron: A probabilistic model for information
storage and organization in the brain. Psychological Review, 65(6), 386–408.
https://doi.org/10.1037/h0042519

[Crossref][PubMed]

Simonyan, K., Vedaldi, A., & Zisserman, A. (2014). Learning local feature
descriptors using convex optimisation. IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis
and Machine Intelligence, 36(8), 1573–1585.

[Crossref][PubMed]

Szegedy, C., Liu, W., Jia, Y., Sermanet, P., Reed, S., Anguelov, D., Erhan, D.,
Vanhoucke, V., & Rabinovich, A. (2015) Going deeper with convolutions. In
IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR) (pp. 1558–
1748). IEEE. https://doi.org/10.1109/CVPR.2015.7298594

Wang, C.-Y., Bochkovskiy, A., & Liao, H.-Y. M. (2022). YOLOv7: Trainable bag-of-
freebies sets new state-of-the-art for real-time object detectors. arXiv,
2207.02696.


Wertheimer, M. (1938). Gestalt theory. In W. D. Ellis (Ed.), A source book of

Gestalt psychology (pp. 1–11). Kegan Paul, Trench, Trubner & Company. https://
doi.org/10.1037/11496-001

[Crossref]

Zeiler, M. D., & Fergus, R. (2014). Visualizing and understanding convolutional
networks. In D. Fleet et al. (Eds.), European Conference on Computer Vision
(ECCV): Computer Vision (pp. 818–833). Springer.


© The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd. 2023

T. Ahamed (ed.), IoT and AI in Agriculture

https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-19-8113-5_10

10. Potentials of Deep Learning Frameworks
for Tree Trunk Detection in Orchard to

Enable Autonomous Navigation System

Ailian Jiang¹, Ryozo Noguchi² and Tofael Ahamed³

(1) Graduate School of Science and Technology, University of Tsukuba,

Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan

(2) Faculty of Agriculture, Kyoto University, Kyoto-shi, Japan

(3) Faculty of Life & Environmental Sciences, University of Tsukuba,
Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan

Tofael Ahamed

Email: tofael.ahamed.gp@u.tsukuba.ac.jp

Abstract

The outdoor environment is more complex and uncertain than the
indoor environment, resulting in the identification of natural

landmarks remaining a challenge in the automation process. In the

orchard, tree branches not only affect the signal accuracy of the global
navigation                                             satellite system (GNSS), but also affect the 
light conditions of
the camera, making the recognition accuracy decrease. Thermal camera
has the potential under low illumination, it can be used to recognize

tree trunks using a deep learning system in different light conditions.
Therefore, the objective of this study was to use a thermal camera to
detect tree trunks at different times of the day under low-light

conditions using deep learning. Thermal images were collected from
the                                            dense canopies of two types of orchards 
(conventional and joint

training systems) under high-light (12–2 PM), low-light (5–6 PM), and
no-light (7–8 PM) conditions in August and September (summertime)


in Japan. Thermal imagery datasets were augmented to train, validate,
and test using the faster R-CNN, YOLO-v3, and CenterNet deep learning
model to detect a tree trunk. A total of 12,876 images were used to train
the model, 9270 images were used for training, 2318 images were used
to validate, and 1288 images were used to test the model. The mAP of

the Faster R-CNN model was 0.8378, YOLO-v3 was 0.4077 and
CenterNet was 0.9370 for the testing process. In the comparisons,

CenterNet was achieved the highest accuracy in the three methods in
tree truck detection using thermal camera. However, based on the
analysis of the actual image results, CenterNet may have missed the

target. Therefore, results showed that Faster R-CNN was the most
suitable                                          method can be used to recognize objects using 
thermal images
in orchards under different lighting conditions.

Keywords Thermal image – Tree trunk detection – Low light
conditions – Orchards – Faster R-CNN – YOLO – CenterNet

10.1 Introduction

Between 1995 and 2010, Japan’s agricultural labor force has gradually
declined                                               from 4.14 to 2.39 million, and its average 
age increased from

59.1 to 65.8 years (Dong, 2018). Therefore, agricultural robotics have
the                                           potential to support agricultural labor shortages and 
increase
agricultural productivity in this critical stage of transformation

(Vadlamudi, 2019). In agricultural automation and robotics
applications, vehicle navigation is important in outdoor environments,
which                                              are complex and uncertain compared to indoor 
conditions

(Bergerman et al., 2016). Open field navigation has significant success
using Real Time Kinematic Global Navigation Satellite System (RTK-

GNSS) with higher accuracy (Takai et al., 2010). However, orchard

navigation is the most complex, and interruption of RTK-GNSS signals
due to high and dense canopies is frequently reported (Li et al., 2009).
Because                                       Japanese orchards have net and dense branches, GNSS 
signals
may be affected, and many farmland orchards do not have base stations
set up to use GNSS directly. In addition, the performance of GNSS-based
navigation depends highly on GNSS signal quality.


Therefore, orchard-based navigation systems remain a challenge for
the development and application of agricultural robots. Light Detection
and Ranging (LiDAR) is used to scan the surrounding environment in

real time and returns accurate distance information using the time-of-
flight                                           principle, it can overcome the limitations of low 
light and

interruption of RTK-GNSS signal. Laser sensors have been used for
agricultural position detection and automatic coupling using artificial
landmarks concrete and grass surface ground for navigation (Tofael

Ahamed et al., 2006a, b, 2009) or crop fields (Malavazi et al., 2018) by
processing point clouds for crop and weed detection. However, LiDAR
can only obtain distance and angular orientation information, cannot
provide information about the object’s type. To develop an intelligent
robust system, LiDAR may not be sufficient for low-light conditions.

Using a camera as a sensor is advantageous, due to its low cost and ease
of                                          installation in agricultural robots. Camera sensors are 
widely used in
navigation systems in various ways, such as using color information to
segment paths in citrus groves for vehicle navigation (Subramanian et
al., 2006), or focusing on color information of shadows and soil texture,
to distinguish traversable areas (furrows) from impenetrable areas

(ridges) for navigation (Takagaki et al., 2013). However, common RGB
cameras                                                are easily affected by light, particularly 
in orchards, where the
light differs between shaded and non-shaded areas, and the cameras

typically experience exposure phenomena, making target identification
unclear. Furthermore, low light is one of the most difficult aspects to

create effective vision systems for agricultural robotics (Zhang et al.,
2018). RGB cameras have high-light requirements and work with low

accuracy or are even unsuitable for low-light environments (Guo et al.,
2021).

A thermal sensor measures the temperature of an object and the
amount of the heat it emits, based on this imaging principle, thermal

camera was used to assess the health of tree trunks and detect damage
in                                                the interior (Abdullah & Mü cahit Taha, 2021). 
Additionally, thermal
camera has a detection function that is not affected by visible light;

thus, this study uses a thermal camera to detect tree trunks in orchards
for                                              target detection. The target can be used to 
position a robot during

navigation. In addition to thermal imagery, advancements in artificial


intelligence and deep learning can be used for tree trunk detection to
enable vehicle navigation under different lighting conditions. Similar
targets may have the same range of temperatures that emit and can

easily localize the target using computer vision-based deep learning
approaches (Hespeler et al., 2021).

When convolutional neural networks (CNN) were successful in

target detection (Krizhevsky et al., 2012), deep learning was attracted
great                                           attention because CNN can not only extract better 
expressive and
more abstract features, but also integrate the functions of extraction,

classification, and selection in one model. There are two main
algorithms:                                              one is the R-CNN (Regions with CNN 
features) series based
on classification and the other is YOLO (You Only Look Once) based on
regression. Those target detection methods first list the potential target
location and then classify. CenterNet as an anchor-free target detection
network, reduces the detect time by using key point estimation to find

the center points and regress to other object properties, such as size,
3D location, orientation, and even pose (Zhou et al., 2019).

This study describes a solution for low-light conditions in orchards
that                                             allows the use of an effective vision system for 
vehicle navigation,
which requires accurate target detection at low machine operating
speeds. Therefore, this study uses Faster R-CNN, YOLO, and CenterNet
for target detection after training using the same dataset. These three
deep learning methods use different structures and have the potential
to identify thermal images in low and no light conditions for
agricultural orchard applications to improve efficiency. Thermal

cameras use infrared information to detect targets in orchards. The
purpose                                                of this study is to use thermal camera for 
trunk detection as a
target object, compare the results of Faster R-CNN, YOLO, and

CenterNet to select a suitable method to develop an autonomous speed
sprayer                                           navigation system.

10.2 Materials and Methods

10.2.1 Field Data Collection


The FLIR ADK® thermal camera has a resolution of 640 × 512, and
images were collected from pear orchards at the Tsukuba-Plant
Innovation Research Center, University of Tsukuba, Tsukuba, Ibaraki
(36°06′56.8″ N, 140°05′37.7″ E). In this study, two types of pear

orchards were used for data collection: (1) a conventional pear orchard,
and                                                 (2) a joint tree training pear orchard (Fig. 
10.1). Images were

collected three times under high-light (12–2 PM), low-light (5–6 PM),
and no-light (7–8 PM) conditions in both orchards (Table 10.1).

Thermal images under different light conditions, such as no-, high-, and
low-light conditions, were then analyzed (Fig. 10.2).

Fig. 10.1 Aerial view of experimental pear orchards: (a) conventional planted
pear orchard and (b) joint tree training pear orchard in the Tsukuba-Plant
Innovation Research Center, University of Tsukuba, Japan

Table 10.1 Dataset collection times and light conditions in orchards

Date    Time     Light condition

2021.8.24 19:00–20:00 No light

2021.8.26 13:00–14:00 Strong light

2021.9.06 17:00–18:00 Low light


Fig. 10.2  Analysis of thermal images under different lighting conditions (a, b)
no-light conditions (7–8 PM). (c, d) high-light conditions (12–2 PM). (e, f) low-


light conditions (5–6 PM)

10.2.2 Data Preparation

10.2.2.1 Image Frames from Videos

MATLAB® (Matrix Laboratory, Natick, Massachusetts, USA) was used to
capture images every 15 frames and remove images that were blurred
and that did not contain tree trunks. In total, 5313 images were
analyzed, and the number of images of trunks in different periods was
similar.

10.2.2.2 Labeling

LabelImg® was used to label datasets while preparing visual object

classes (VOC) and COCO datasets. When the position of the tree trunk
on                                                the image was selected, information such as the 
image name, object
classification, and pixel coordinates were recorded in an .xml and .txt

file. .xml files were used to train Faster R-CNN model, and .txt files were
used to train YOLO and CenterNet.

10.2.2.3 Data Augmentation

To obtain a larger database and improve training accuracy, the original
5313                                             images were randomly flipped and rotated at random 
angles to

obtain 7563 new images, and the labeling boxes of the images were also
changed and saved as new .xml and .txt files.

10.2.2.4 Data Splitting

After labeling was completed, the data were divided into three sets:
training, validation and testing. Training was conducted to adjust the

model parameters, and the classifier was adjusted to increase accuracy.
Validation was performed to check the state and convergence of the
model developed during training, and validation sets were used to
adjust hyperparameters and determine which set of hyperparameters
was the most suitable. Testing was performed to evaluate the

generalizability of the model, which was used for the validation set to
determine the parameters.


10.2.3 Training Model Structure

10.2.3.1 Faster R-CNN (Faster Region Based Convolutional
Neural Networks)

The faster R-CNN model was based on Fast R-CNN. Replacing the
selective                                           search in Fast R-CNN with Region Proposal 
Network (RPN), to
achieve more accurate regional proposals, reduce the redundancy of

network computation, and improve detection speed. The primary part
of                                               the model has convolutional layers, RPN, region of 
interest (ROI)
pooling, and classification. In the Faster R-CNN model, the image's

feature maps were got through convolution layers. RPN created region
proposals and sent to Region of Interest (ROI) pooling. ROI pooling

combine the feature maps and proposals to extract proposal feature
maps.                                        Classification part distinguished the classification 
of proposals
and decided the exact location of bounding boxes (Fig. 10.3, 10.4).

Fig. 10.3 Faster R-CNN structure for tree truck detection used in this research


Fig. 10.4  Faster R-CNN network structure focusing regional proposal network
for feature map

10.2.3.1.1 Convolutional Layers

As a CNN network target detection method, faster R-CNN first used a
set                                                 of basic convolutional + ReLU + pooling layers 
to extract feature
maps of images for training datasets. The feature maps were shared for
subsequent RPN layers and fully connected layers. The feature

extraction process in Faster R-CNN is the same as that in CNN and can
be                                               done using some common structures, such as the 
commonly used
VGG and ResNet (Mahmud et al., 2021). In this study, VGG16 model was
be used, which was a convolutional neural network model that was

proposed (Simonyan & Zisserman, 2014). VGG can be divided into six
configurations (A, A-LRN, B, C, D, E) according to the size of the

convolutional kernel and the number of convolutional layers. This study
used                                                the D configuration with 13 convolutional 
layers, 3 fully connected
layers, and 5 pooling layers. The convolutional layer and fully

connected layer had weight coefficients called weight layers (Fig. 10.5).


Fig. 10.5 VGG16 for target of tree trunk detection

The convolutional layer was used to extract features. A 3 × 3

convolutional kernel was used to slide over the image, and the output
changed                                                the image size because both the stride and 
padding setting
value were 1. Because the linear model cannot solve all problems, the
ReLU layer was used to add nonlinear factors to simulate more subtle
changes (Oostwal et al., 2021). The pooling layer compressed the input
feature map to make the feature map smaller and simplify the

computational complexity of the network, and feature compression was
used to extract the primary features. The pooling layer used a 2 × 2

convolutional kernel with a stride of 2 to perform the max pooling in

the feature map. Therefore, the output feature map size was reduced by
half. Finally, a fully connected layer connected all of the feature maps
and transmitted the output to the softmax classifier.

In this VGGNet, there were five convolutional segments, all of which
used                                                 3 × 3 convolutional kernels because the 3 × 3 
convolutional

kernels can have fewer parameters and have more nonlinear

transformations to increase the CNN’s ability to learn features
(Simonyan & Zisserman, 2014).

10.2.3.1.2 RPN

This network model was a new structure proposed by Faster R-CNN,
which determines the approximate position of the target from the

feature maps. RPN first generates many anchors (the candidate boxes)


on the feature map. Then, the RPN network was divided into two lines:
the                                              upper line distinguished whether it is a tree 
trunk by softmax

classification and the lower line was used to calculate the bounding box
regression offset for the anchors to obtain an accurate proposal (Li et
al., 2021). The final proposal layer combined the anchors of the tree

trunk, and the corresponding bounding box regression offsets to obtain
the                                            proposals and eliminate the proposals that were too 
small or out of
bounds.

10.2.3.1.3 ROI Pooling

After the RPN network had created the proposals, ROI pooling was
applied to the proposals, and the feature maps were generated by the

last layer in the VGG16 network. Also, a fixed-size proposal feature map
was                                            obtained and sent to localization and recognition.

10.2.3.1.4 Classi𝑓ication

Softmax was used to classify the target objects of tree trunk detection.
The                                             output classification contained the probability of 
being the target
as a tree trunk. Bounding box regression offset each proposal and was
used to predict the target detection box more accurately.

The total loss function of Faster R-CNN consisted of classification
loss                                           and regression loss. The classification loss was 
calculated by
softmax in the RPN classification layer, which was used to classify the
anchors as positive and negative for training the network. Conversely,
regression loss was calculated by the RPN bounding box regression

layer and used to train the bounding box regression network.

Therefore, the total loss function can be expressed as Eq. (10.1):

(10.1)

where i is the anchor index, pi represents the positive probability of
anchor I, pi* is the ground-truth label (if pi* is 1, the anchor is positive; if
pi*  is 0, the anchor is negative), t is the predicted bounding box, ti is the
vector representing the four parameterized coordinates of the


predicted bounding box, and ti* is a positive anchor associated with the
ground-truth box.

Ncls is the trunk image during the training process, and Nreg is the
number of anchor locations. As the difference between Ncls and Nreg
was too large in the real process, the parameter λ was used to balance
the two parameters. Therefore, the network total loss calculation

process was considered for two types of losses: Lreg is the regression
and Lcls is the classification loss function for the detection of trunks.
The                                           smooth function (L1) was used to estimate regression 
loss (Lreg),
which is calculated and expressed as Eq. (10.2):

(10.2)

The smooth function is defined as Eq. (10.3):

(10.3)

where x is the prediction error of the bounding box and the parameter

σ is used to control the smoothing area.

For the bounding box regression, we used the four coordinates in
the following parameterized expressions (10.4)–(10.11):

(10.4)

(10.5)

(10.6)

(10.7)

(10.8)


(10.9)

(10.10)

(10.11)

where x, y, w, and h denote the center coordinates of the box and its
width and height, respectively. The variables x, xa, and x* are used for
the predicted box, the anchor box, and the ground-truth box,

respectively, which can be considered a bounding box regression from
the                                            anchor box to the nearby real box.

10.2.3.2 YOLO (You Only Look Once)

YOLO’s CNN network segments the input image into S × S grids, and
predict the bounding boxes and the confidence score (Fig. 10.6). The

confidence score contained two aspects, one was the probability of this
bounding box containing the target, and the other was the accuracy of
this bounding box. The confidence score reflected the probability that

the target in the bounding box belongs to each category and how
closely the bounding box matches the target.


Fig. 10.6 The workflow of YOLO

In Chaps. 9 and 11 of this book, the structure of YOLO has been
explained in detail, this chapter does not repeat.

10.2.3.3 CenterNet

CenterNet was an anchor-free target detection network, which was
faster                                                and more accurate because it located the 
detected target to a
single point, saved the time and operation of listing bounding box.
Compared with CornerNet, the same anchor-free detection method,
CornerNet needed to perform two key point detection (upper left point
and lower right point) to determine the position of the object, while
CenterNet only needed to perform one key point detection (center
point) to determine the position, which was simpler than CornerNet.

The structure of CentetNet was very simple (Fig. 10.7). The input
image was scaled to 512 × 512 and then inputted into convolution

neural network (e.g. Resnet, Hourglass), and the feature maps extracted
by                                                 the neural network were sent to center point, 
offset, boxes size three
branches for prediction to obtain the results.

Fig. 10.7 The structure of CentetNet

The center got from the feature map as shown in Fig. 10.8, which
will                                               be transformed to a heatmap (Fig. 10.8(a)), the 
location of the

object which had the highest value was the center (Fig. 10.8(b)). The
center should be surrounded, the offset was used to assess the
deviation of centers between the feature map and the original

image (Fig. 10.8(c)) (Zhao & Yan, 2021).


Fig. 10.8 (a–c) The workflow of CenterNet

The input image was denoted as I ∈ RW × H × ³, W is the width of our
image, the height is H, and 3 means picture RGB channels. The heatmap
of the center keypoint is             , R is the downsampling rate,

C is the number of classes, in this research, just has one class of tree.
means that the point is center keypoint for class C,

means it is not detected or it is background. As show in Fig. 10.8(a), the
darker the color, the closer to the object.

The ground truth (GT) trained by CenterNet is a little different from
other                                              target detection networks, it is more similar to 
the segmentation
network, the input GT is a feature map generated based on the target
box. For example, the center point p of the ground truth needs to be

calculated,             , where x and y are the coordinates in the

GT. But the feature map was downsampled, p is also downsampled by
using R,      .  is the center point of truth data in the feature map.

To make the training process smoother, a Gaussian kernel was used to
do the smoothing of GT, where the size of the Gaussian-processed
values of the pixels around p points is

(10.12)

where σp is the standard deviation obtained by adapting to the size of
the current target p.

10.2.4 Training Platform and Validation


The hardware environment used in this study included Windows 10,
Intel(R) Core (TM) i7-10750H CPU @ 2.60 GHz, 32.0 GB of RAM, and an
NVIDIA GeForce RTX 2060. The software environment included

Anaconda 3, Python 3.5, and TensorFlow-GPU 1.13.1. In the

experiment, a total of 12,876 infrared images of orchard trunks were
used for training, 9270 images in the training datasets, and 2318
images                                               in the validation datasets.

10.2.5 Model Testing

To verify model reliability and stability, 1288 images were selected as

the test set for validation after the model was trained. In this paper, the
precision-recall curve was obtained by calculating precision and recall
to highlight the trade-off between precision (P) and recall (R) of the

classification model. The area under the curve was calculated to obtain
the average precision (AP) of the model. Because there was only one

category in this experiment, AP was the same as mAP (mean average
precision). The P, R, and AP can be expressed as expressions (10.13)–
(10.15):

(10.13)

(10.14)

(10.15)

where TP is the true positive value (i.e., the correct detection box); FP is
the false-positive value (i.e., the false detection box that predicts the
background as the target); and FN is the false negative value (i.e., the
missed detection box). During testing, 1288 images were used as

testing datasets in the three model.

10.3 Results

10.3.1 Faster R-CNN Testing


The number of iterations were 40,000, and the losses were reported as
total loss, bounding box loss, classification loss, regional proposal

network (RPN) classification loss, and RPN bounding box loss (Fig.
10.9). According to Fig. 10.9, the total loss function dropped to
approximately 0.6 and oscillated near 0.6 when training reached

40,000 iterations, effectively reaching convergence. Also, both the
bounding                                               box loss and classification loss converged; 
thus, training was
stopped at 40,000 iterations.



Fig. 10.9  Faster R-CNN loss images. (a) Total loss. (b) Bounding box loss. (c)
Classification loss. (d) Regional Proposal Network classification loss. (e)
Regional Proposal Network bounding box loss

The mAP of the Faster R-CNN model was found to be 0.8378 (Fig.
10.10). The images for testing were considered based on the training
results conducted for the high-, low-, and no-light conditions (Fig.

10.11). Two images were selected at different time periods.

Fig. 10.10 Precision-recall curve of Faster R-CNN



Fig. 10.11  Image results of Faster R-CNN test: (a–d) no-light conditions, (e–h)
high-light conditions, and (i–l) low-light conditions

10.3.2 YOLO Testing

Same as Faster R-CNN, YOLO’s loss were tend to be smooth after 40,000
iterations. The training was stopped at 40,000 iterations and the loss
value were decreased to 0.7 (Fig. 10.12). Precision-recall curve of YOLO
is shown in Fig. 10.13, and its accuracy was only 0.4. The same images
were selected for testing (Fig. 10.14), and it was found that YOLO could
not detect tree trunks in no-light condition, and only some tree trunks
in high-light and low-light can be found, and in the joint tree orchard,
YOLO cannot be used at all.



Fig. 10.12 YOLO-v3 loss image

Fig. 10.13 Precision-recall curve of YOLO-v3



Fig. 10.14  Image results of YOLO-v3 test: (a–d) no-light conditions, (e–h)
high-light conditions, and (i–l) low-light conditions

10.3.3 CenterNet Testing

Different from the iteration times of Faster R-CNN and YOLO, CenterNet
training was done by epoch. The training was set 60 epochs, and the

loss had become smoothly at the end of the training (Fig. 10.15).
CenterNet                                        automatically saved the best result during 
training, and the
best result was obtained at the 45th epoch in this study, the loss was

0.78. The precision-recall curve obtained with the best results is shown
in                                                Fig. 10.16, and its accuracy was reached at 0.94. 
Selected the similar
images for testing, CenterNet also could accurately identify tree trunks
(Fig. 10.17).


Fig. 10.15 CenterNet loss image

Fig. 10.16 Precision-recall curve of CenterNet



Fig. 10.17  Image results of CenterNet test: (a–d) no-light conditions, (e–h)
high-light conditions, and (i–l) low-light conditions

10.4 Discussion

Machine vision typically analyzed RGB imagery and can thus not
manage low-light conditions to recognize natural landmarks.

Conversely, GNSS suffered signal interruptions due to dense canopies
inside                                               the orchards. LiDAR also had difficulties 
recognizing tree trunks
because the large scanning range decreases the mistake of recognizing
tree trunks. To increase the robustness of these methods, this study
used a thermal camera combined with deep learning to identify fruit

tree trunks under high-, low-, and no-light conditions. The loss function


shown in the results section represents the difference between the
predicted value of the model and the training samples. A smaller value
indicates                                               that the closer the predicted sample is to 
the real sample, the
more robust the model was. In contrast, a larger value indicated that

the difference between the predicted and real samples was larger
(Zhang et al., 2020).

By training Faster R-CNN, YOLO, and CenterNet with the same
dataset,                                            through plotting precision-recall and testing 
the same images,
it can be found that YOLO was less accurate in thermal images in this
study, and Faster R-CNN and CenterNet can accurately identify the

target. In the testing results in the conventional and joint orchards, this
model was able to recognize tree trunks accurately.

Although the precision-recall curve showed that the accuracy of
Faster R-CNN was lower than that of CenterNet, Faster R-CNNN was
able  to find more targets with higher target accuracy than CenterNet by
image testing. In the joint tree orchard, the tree trunk covered by the
shelf                                                  is detected by Faster R-CNN (Fig. 10.11g, 
h), but not by CenterNet
(Fig. 10.17g, h). Faster R-CNN sometimes had detection errors, as in Fig.
10.11d, Faster R-CNN detected the orchard net as a target, but the

detection error probability of Faster R-CNN was smaller compared to
the targets missed by CenterNet. By the above comparison, Faster R-
CNN was more suitable to be applied in this study.

However, results showed that the converged losses did not reach
below 0.1, while other studies had less than 0.1 (Jiang et al., 2021);

these results likely occurred was because the two types of trees

(conventional and joint) were investigated in this study, which differ
markedly                                                 in shape. Also, in the conventional 
orchard, the trees differed
markedly in size, with some trees being 30 cm wide and some less than
5 cm, which led to a larger loss convergence result. In addition,
randomly selected images were used to prepare the validation set.

According to the validation results, the model works properly to detect
the                                               tree trunk in conventional and joint orchards 
under high-, low-, and
no-light conditions, and had a higher accuracy rate. The poles and
shelves in the orchards can be distinguished from the fruit tree trunk.

In the rotated images, the trunk could be identified accurately.


In the joint tree system, using a thermal camera had more flexibility
to                                            detect the tree trunk due to the uniform shape of the 
tree and growth
in rows. However, natural orchards have different types, and the shapes
of the field and canopy coverages can be markedly different.

Traditionally, orchard growers in Japan control pruning and training
according to their heights of operations, which makes using machinery
inconvenient.                                            Joint tree training systems have the 
advantage of uniform
growing and machinery automation systems. Therefore, the thermal

camera used in the research has a high application potential in join tree
training systems to use for orchard navigation in combination with

other positional sensors such as LiDAR. In previous studies, LiDAR was
able to detect artificial landmarks and cones for use in positional
algorithms in orchard navigation (Thanpattranon et al., 2015, 2016). In
future research, a thermal camera and LiDAR are planned to be used to
navigate speed sprayers in an orchard.

10.5 Conclusion

Thermal imagery had the potential to detect natural landmarks under
different lighting conditions. This study proposes using the Faster R-

CNN, YOLO-v3 and CenterNet for thermal images to detect pear tree
trunks to enable navigation under various lighting conditions in

orchards. Conventional and joint tree training system orchards were
considered for dataset collection. The accuracy and reliability of the
model was verified by training and testing the thermal images,
indicating that target detection could be performed in high-, low-, and

no-light conditions using a thermal camera. In this study, all 640 × 512-
pixel images and videos were used. CenterNet had higher accuracy

compared to YOLO-v3 and Faster R-CNN using the same dataset, but
Faster R-CNN could detect more objects and was most suitable in this
study.                                              The model could distinguish poles and shelves 
even they are
same size with tree trunk, indicating that the thermal camera can be
used for orchard navigation to detect tree trunks under different light
conditions, and using this system can allow machinery to operate in

orchards at any time. Therefore, the thermal camera can be used in
high-,                                              low-, or no-light conditions inside orchards to 
detect tree trunks


using deep learning algorithm. However, due to the unavoidable error
in                                           labeling, the recognition accuracies decreased after 
20m, such as

omissions and identification errors. As the thermal camera is

a monocular camera, distance measuring must be assisted by other
sensors.                                                 In future research, an autonomous speed 
sprayer is planned to
be used by installing the thermal camera and combine with LiDAR for

orchard navigation under different light conditions to provide solutions
in                                          orchard automation to increase productivity.

Acknowledgments

Thanks to Open Access Publishers Land from MDPI to have their policy
to                                             support the authors for reusing of the published 
article. In this

regard, we would like to extend our gratitude to Sensors Journal to
publish                                               this article (Ailian Jiang, Ryozo Noguchi, 
Tofael Ahamed. Tree
Trunk Recognition in Orchard Autonomous Operations under Different
Light Conditions Using a Thermal Camera and Faster R-CNN, Sensors,
22(5), 2065; https://doi.org/10.3390/s22052065, 2022). Some
modifications have been conducted in this book chapter to add new
analysis for comparison of DLs. This study was supported by grants

from the Japanese Society of Promotion Science JSPS Kiban C (Grant
Number                                          21K05844). The authors would like to thank the 
Tsukuba Plant
Innovation Research Center (T-PIRC), University of Tsukuba, for
providing facilities for conducting this research in its orchards.

Conflicts of Interest  The authors declare no conflicts of interest.

References

Abdullah, B., & Mü cahit Taha, Ö . (2021). Canopy analysis and thermographic
abnormalities determination possibilities of olive trees by using data mining
algorithms. Notulae Botanicae Horti Agrobotanici Cluj-Napoca, 49(1), 12139.
https://doi.org/10.15835/nbha49112139

[Crossref]

Ahamed, T., Takigawa, T., Koike, M., Honma, T., Hasegawa, H., & Zhang, Q.
(2006a). Navigation using a laser range finder for autonomous tractor (Part 2)
navigation for approach composed of multiple paths. Journal of the Japanese


Society of Agricultural Machinery, 68(1), 78–86. https://doi.org/10.11357/
jsam1937.68.78

[Crossref]

Ahamed, T., Takigawa, T., Koike, M., Honma, T., Hasegawa, H., & Zhang, Q.
(2006b). Navigation using a laser range finder for autonomous tractor (Part 1).
Journal of the Japanese Society of Agricultural Machinery, 68, 68–77.

Ahamed, T., Tian, L., Takigawa, T., & Zhang, Y. (2009). Development of auto-
hitching navigation system for farm implements using laser range finder.

Transactions of the ASABE, 52(5), 1793–1803. https://doi.org/10.13031/2013.
29120

[Crossref]

Bergerman, M., Billingsley, J., Reid, J., & van Henten, E. (2016). Robotics in
agriculture and forestry. In Springer handbook of robotics (pp. 1463–1492).
Springer.

Dong, Y. (2018). Japan: Aging of the agricultural labor force and its solutions.
World food Prize Foundation.

Guo, Z., Li, X., Xu, Q., & Sun, Z. (2021). Robust semantic segmentation based on
RGB-thermal in variable lighting scenes. Measurement, 186, 110176. https://
doi.org/10.1016/j.measurement.2021.110176

[Crossref]

Hespeler, S. C., Nemati, H., & Dehghan-Niri, E. (2021). Non-destructive thermal
imaging for object detection via advanced deep learning for robotic inspection
and harvesting of chili peppers. Artificial Intelligence in Agriculture, 5, 102–117.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.aiia.2021.05.003

[Crossref]

Jiang, D., Li, G., Tan, C., Huang, L., Sun, Y., & Kong, J. (2021). Semantic
segmentation for multiscale target based on object recognition using the
improved Faster-RCNN model. Future Generation Computer Systems, 123, 94–

104. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.future.2021.04.019
[Crossref]

Krizhevsky, A., Sutskever, I., & Hinton, G. E. (2012). ImageNet classification with
deep convolutional neural networks. Paper presented at the Proceedings of the
25th International Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems -
Volume 1, Lake Tahoe, Nevada.


Li, M., Imou, K., Wakabayashi, K., & Yokoyama, S. J. (2009). Review of research
on agricultural vehicle autonomous guidance. International Journal of

Agricultural and Biological Engineering, 2(3), 1–16.

Li, Z., Li, Y., Yang, Y., Guo, R., Yang, J., Yue, J., & Wang, Y. (2021). A high-precision
detection method of hydroponic lettuce seedlings status based on improved
Faster RCNN. Computers and Electronics in Agriculture, 182, 106054. https://doi.
org/10.1016/j.compag.2021.106054

[Crossref]

Mahmud, M. S., Zahid, A., Das, A. K., Muzammil, M., & Khan, M. U. (2021). A
systematic literature review on deep learning applications for precision cattle
farming. Computers and Electronics in Agriculture, 187, 106313. https://doi.org/
10.1016/j.compag.2021.106313

[Crossref]

Malavazi, F. B. P., Guyonneau, R., Fasquel, J.-B., Lagrange, S., & Mercier, F.
(2018). LiDAR-only based navigation algorithm for an autonomous agricultural
robot. Computers and Electronics in Agriculture, 154, 71–79. https://doi.org/10.
1016/j.compag.2018.08.034

[Crossref]

Oostwal, E., Straat, M., & Biehl, M. (2021). Hidden unit specialization in layered
neural networks: ReLU vs. sigmoidal activation. Physica A: Statistical Mechanics
and its Applications, 564, 125517. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.physa.2020.

125517

[Crossref]

Simonyan, K., & Zisserman, A. (2014). Very deep convolutional networks for
large-scale image recognition. arXiv, 1409.1556.

Subramanian, V., Burks, T. F., & Arroyo, A. A. (2006). Development of machine
vision and laser radar based autonomous vehicle guidance systems for citrus
grove navigation. Computers and Electronics in Agriculture, 53(2), 130–143.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.2006.06.001

[Crossref]

Takagaki, A., Masuda, R., Iida, M., & Suguri, M. (2013). Image processing for
ridge/furrow discrimination for autonomous agricultural vehicles navigation.
IFAC Proceedings, 46(18), 47–51. https://doi.org/10.3182/20130828-2-SF-

3019.00045


[Crossref]

Takai, R., Barawid, O., Ishii, K., & Noguchi, N. (2010). Development of crawler-
type robot tractor based on GPS and IMU. IFAC Proceedings, 43(26), 151–156.
https://doi.org/10.3182/20101206-3-JP-3009.00026

[Crossref]

Thanpattranon, P., Ahamed, T., & Takigawa, T. (2015). Navigation of an
autonomous tractor for a row-type tree plantation using a laser range finder—
Development of a point-to-go algorithm. Robotics, 4(3), 341–364.

[Crossref]

Thanpattranon, P., Ahamed, T., & Takigawa, T. (2016). Navigation of
autonomous tractor for orchards and plantations using a laser range finder:
Automatic control of trailer position with tractor. Biosystems Engineering, 147,
90–103. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.biosystemseng.2016.02.009

[Crossref]

Vadlamudi, S. (2019). How artificial intelligence improves agricultural
productivity and sustainability: A global thematic analysis. Asia Pacific Journal

of Energy and Environment, 6(2), 91–100. https://doi.org/10.18034/apjee.v6i2.
542

[Crossref]

Zhang, Y., Chen, H., He, Y., Ye, M., Cai, X., & Zhang, D. (2018). Road segmentation
for all-day outdoor robot navigation. Neurocomputing, 314, 316–325. https://
doi.org/10.1016/j.neucom.2018.06.059

[Crossref]

Zhang, H., Tian, Y., Wang, K., Zhang, W., & Wang, F. Y. (2020). Mask SSD: An
effective single-stage approach to object instance segmentation. IEEE

Transactions on Image Processing, 29, 2078–2093. https://doi.org/10.1109/TIP.
2019.2947806

[Crossref][PubMed]

Zhao, K., & Yan, W. Q. (2021). Fruit detection from digital images using
CenterNet. Paper presented at the Geometry and Vision, Cham.

Zhou, X., Wang, D., & Krähenbü hl, P. (2019). Objects as points. arXiv,
1904.07850.


© The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd. 2023

T. Ahamed (ed.), IoT and AI in Agriculture

https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-19-8113-5_11

11. Real-Time Pear Fruit Detection and Counting
Using YOLOv4 Models and Deep SORT

Addie Ira Borja Parico¹, ² and Tofael Ahamed³

(1) Graduate School of Life and Environmental Sciences, University of Tsukuba,

Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan

(2) Corpy & Co., Inc., Tokyo, Japan

(3) Faculty of Life & Environmental Sciences, University of Tsukuba, Tsukuba,
Ibaraki, Japan

Tofael Ahamed

Email: tofael.ahamed.gp@u.tsukuba.ac.jp

Abstract

This study aimed to produce a robust real-time pear fruit counter for mobile
applications using only RGB data, the variants of the state-of-the-art object

detection model YOLOv4, and the multiple object-tracking algorithm Deep SORT.

This study also provided a systematic and pragmatic methodology for choosing the
most suitable model for a desired application in agricultural sciences. In terms of
accuracy, YOLOv4-CSP was observed as the optimal model, with an AP@0.50 of

98%. In terms of speed and computational cost, YOLOv4-tiny was found to be the
ideal model, with a speed of more than 50 FPS and FLOPS of 6.8–14.5. If

considering the balance in terms of accuracy, speed, and computational cost,
YOLOv4 was found to be most suitable and had the highest accuracy metrics while
satisfying a real time speed of greater than or equal to 24 FPS. Between the two
methods of counting with Deep SORT, the unique ID method was found to be more
reliable, with an F1count of 87.85%. This was because YOLOv4 had a very low false
negative in detecting pear fruits. The ROI line is more reliable because of its more
restrictive nature, but due to flickering in detection it was not able to count some
pears despite their being detected.

Keywords YOLO – YOLOv4 – Deep SORT – Object counting – Real time – Object
detection – Fruit detection

11.1 Introduction


Pear farmers in typically count their yield manually and tend to have higher post-
harvest losses due to short perishability and packaging arrangements. In addition,
quicker decision making is necessary in an extreme climatic event situation. To
make this process easier for farmers, a mobile phone-based application for

counting pears in real time was conceptualized to support the logistics
management of pears. However, this would require a fast and accurate detection
method  that is not computationally expensive. Taking a video from under the trees
would require robustness due to challenges such as illumination and occlusion.

Deep learning algorithms have proven to be the most robust way for object
detection (Kamilaris & Prenafeta-Boldú , 2018a, b). Considering accuracy and
speed, YOLOv4 (You Only Look Once) (Bochkovskiy et al., 2020) has been the top
performer for object detection models recently. YOLOv4 runs two times faster than
a recent state-of-the-art object detection model, EfficientDet, at a similar accuracy.

More importantly, YOLOv4 was designed to enable training on a single

conventional GPU, unlike other models. After the development of YOLOv4, Wang et
al. (2020a) modified the structure of YOLOv4 to enable scaling for different
applications. YOLOv4-tiny was designed to maximize speed and to achieve the
minimum computational cost possible. Then, YOLOv4-CSP and other larger

versions of YOLOv4 were developed to maximize accuracy with varying

computational requirements. In this study, the authors evaluated the speed-
accuracy-memory tradeoff among YOLOv4, YOLOv4-tiny, and YOLOv4-CSP on
detecting pear fruits.

One can use detection alone for counting objects. However, some of the most
common problems in detection systems are flickering, failure to detect the object

under occlusion and challenging illumination. Therefore, relying completely on the
number of detections for the pear count could lead to errors, especially in a pear

orchard scenario where the abovementioned challenges are common. For that
reason, a back-up system should cover for this limitation to ensure accuracy in

counting, which can be through object tracking. With object tracking, a unique ID

can be assigned to a detection, thus, giving a more reliable measure of object count
just in case the detection system fails. Deep SORT (Simple Online Realtime Tracking
with Deep Association Metric) has been proven to be one of the fastest and most

robust algorithms for multiple object tracking (Wojke et al., 2017). Deep SORT was
found to have runtime speed of 25–50 FPS using recent conventional GPUs (Wojke
et al., 2017). Due to its suitability for real-time tracking and robustness, Deep SORT
was selected as the tracking algorithm in this study for counting the pear fruits in
real time.

Several studies have utilized YOLO-based models for fruit detection and have
demonstrated that YOLO models have a huge potential in accurate real time
detection of fruits in an orchard (Koirala et al., 2019; Liu et al., 2020; Yan et al.,

2021; Lawal 2021; Fu et al., 2020; Gai et al., 2021; Kang & Chen, 2020; Kuznetsova


et al., 2020a; Kuznetsova et al., 2021; Wu et al., 2021). However, there were some

concerns found among these studies. First, no study simultaneously considered the
parameters of detection accuracy, inference speed, and computational cost, which
are very important for the optimization of the detection algorithm. Second, most of
the studies did not report loss curves for their models, thus, it is difficult to verify if
overfitting or underfitting of their dataset occurred. It is also difficult to confirm if

they had truly achieved the highest possible performance metrics exhaustively
without overfitting. Finally, reported research only focused on detection and did
not address the possibility of counting the objects in real time, which is a

completely different matter.

There was one study found where YOLO was combined with a classical tracking
algorithm (Kalman filter) for counting the fruits with an F1 score of 0.972 (Itakura
et  al., 2021). However, the speed of the counting system was not mentioned. In
addition, it was not stated if the information processing was done in one batch or
sequentially. Thus, it is difficult to confirm if their system is truly applicable in real
time.

Considering these limitations in related studies, the main contribution of this
study was to develop a real time fruit counting system through detection and

tracking while evaluating the computational cost. The concept is that the pear

counter counts the pear fruits from a video taken in real time based on a two-part
system with a state-of-the-art detection algorithm YOLOv4, and a leading tracking
algorithm Deep SORT. To do that, detection performance, inference speed, and

computational cost were considered concurrently as target metrics for optimizing
the detection algorithm.

Furthermore, a comprehensive, systematic, and pragmatic guide in performing
an object detection study in an agricultural or life sciences application was
provided. First, target metrics were clearly defined. Then, a modified data splitting
scheme was proposed for cases where data mismatch existed between the
available training and test datasets. Next, this research also provided a
methodological training strategy that can guide the researcher to objectively
diagnose problems that exist during training, such as overfitting, and under fitting.
With the systematic guide provided in carrying out object detection research, high
quality and reproducible results are ensured.

This article provides the problem statement and contributions to the
agricultural production system for minimizing post-harvest losses in Sect. 11.1. In
Sect. 11.2, more details about the YOLO models, Deep SORT, and other related
studies are discussed. Section 11.3 lays out the systematic methodology in

preparing the data, defining the target metrics, carrying out the training, validation,
and optimization of the detection models, comparison of the YOLOv4 models

(YOLOv4, YOLOv4-CSP, and YOLOv4-tiny), integration with the tracking algorithm
and, finally, evaluation of the pear counting system. In Sect. 11.4, the results of the


training, error analysis, model comparison, and evaluation of the pear counting
system are presented. Finally, Sect. 11.5 outlines the conclusion and future

directions of the study.

11.2 Related Works

11.2.1 You Only Look Once (YOLO)

Deep learning algorithms have been shown to be one of the most robust ways for
approaching object detection (Kamilaris & Prenafeta-Boldú , 2018b). Considering
accuracy and speed, YOLOv4 (Wang et al., 2020a) has been the top performer for
object detection models recently. Joseph Redmon in 2016 developed the

predecessor of YOLOv4, You Only Look Once (YOLO), which was considered one of
the first convolutional neural networks (CNNs) with real-time speed. Its speed was
attributed to its one-shot detection mechanism, where it simultaneously predicted
the bounding box coordinates and class probabilities from an image (Redmon et al.,
2015); YOLO divides an input image into S × S grids then predicts bounding boxes
with corresponding confidences of having detected an object of class C (Fig. 11.1).
A threshold value is set to eliminate bounding boxes of low confidence. Therefore,
probabilities that are greater than the threshold value are considered detections.


Fig. 11.1 (Top) General workflow of YOLO; (Bottom) YOLO Architecture

However, the YOLO had its downsides. It had difficulties in detecting small
objects and objects with unusual aspect ratios. It also made more localization
errors compared to the state-of-the-art object detection model, fast R-CNN. In
2017, a more accurate counterpart of YOLO was introduced, which was called
YOLOv2. The accuracy improvements in YOLOv2 were mainly due to the use of

anchor boxes in predicting the location of objects in an image, batch normalization
in the convolutional layers, and high-resolution classifier. Because of these
improvements, YOLOv2 was able to outperform some state-of-the-art models such
as    Faster R-CNN with a mAP of 78.6% and an inference speed of 40 FPS on a Pascal
VOC 2007 dataset and an mAP0.5:0.95 of 21.6% on an MS COCO test-dev 2015

(Redmon & Farhadi, 2017).


Then, a year after, several improvements were applied to YOLOv3. In this
version, the previous backbone network of YOLOv2 (Darknet-19) was replaced
with Darknet-53. Other than that, the following were also integrated into the

system: (1) binary cross entropy in loss calculations, (2) use of logistic regression
in predicting the “objectness score” for each bounding box, and (3) feature

extraction at three different scales inspired by FPN (Lin et al., 2016; Redmon &
Farhadi, 2018). Because of these enhancements, compared to YOLOv2, YOLOv3 had
a better AP of 28.2% on an MS COCO dataset, which was on par with SSD but three
time faster. However, the increased accuracy had some cost on the inference speed.

In early 2020, Bochkovskiy et al. introduced YOLOv4, which is more accurate
and faster than YOLOv3 by 10% and 12%, respectively. YOLOv4 runs two times
faster than a recent state-of-the-art object detection model, EfficientDet, at a
similar accuracy. More importantly, YOLOv4 was designed to enable training on a
single conventional GPU, unlike other models. The efficiency and increase in
accuracy of YOLOv4 in object detection result mainly from several improvements
incorporated into the model, which are: (1) cross-stage partial connections (CSP)
in     the new CSPDarknet53 inspired by CSPNet (Wang et al., 2020b), (2) use of Mish
and leaky ReLU as an activation function (Maas et al., 2013; Misra, 2019), (3)
adoption of a Path Aggregation Network (Liu et al., 2018) in place of the FPN that
was used in YOLOv3, and (4) use of Spatial Pyramid Pooling (Huang et al., 2020) as
a plug-in module.

After the development of YOLOv4, Wang et al. (2020a) modified the structure of
YOLOv4 to enable scaling for different applications. YOLOv4-tiny was designed to
maximize speed and to achieve the minimum computational cost possible. Then,
YOLOv4-CSP and other larger versions of YOLOv4 were developed to maximize
accuracy with varying computational requirements. In this study, the author

compared the performances of YOLOv4, YOLOv4-tiny, and YOLOv4-CSP on
detecting pear fruits.

Some common problems for detection systems are flickering and failure to
detect the object under occlusion and challenging illumination. Therefore, relying
completely on the number of detections for the pear count would be erroneous,

especially in a pear orchard scenario where the mentioned challenges are common.
For that reason, a back-up system should cover for this limitation to ensure
accuracy in counting, which can be through object tracking. With object tracking, a
unique ID can be assigned to a detection, thus, giving a more reliable measure of

object count in case the detection system fails.

11.2.2 Simple Online and Real Time Tracking with Convolutional
Neural Networks (CNNs)

Among the algorithms for multiple object tracking, deep SORT has proven to be one
of the fastest and most robust approaches (Wojke et al., 2017). It started as the


Simple Online and Real time Tracking (SORT) algorithm (Bewley et al., 2016),
which was developed to have a minimalistic approach in detection-based online

tracking, which focused on efficiently associating object detections on each frame.
It took advantage of the high reputation of convolutional neural networks in
accurately detecting objects. In addition, two classic methods in motion prediction
and data association, the Hungarian algorithm (Kuhn, 1955) and Kalman filter

(Kalman, 1960), were implemented as the tracking components. Due to its modest
complexity, SORT was 20 times faster than other state-of-the-art trackers (Bewley
et al., 2016). Using Faster R-CNN (Ren et al., 2017) as the detector, it also had better
performance compared to the traditional online tracking methods in the MOT

(multiple object tracking) Challenge 2015 (Leal-Taixé et al., 2015).

The main drawback with SORT was occlusions and when viewpoints change. To
solve this issue, Wojke et al. (2017) developed Deep SORT, which is an extended

version of SORT (illustrated in Fig. 11.2). In Deep SORT, instead of relying only on
motion-based metrics in data association, it also integrated a deep appearance-
based metric derived from the convolutional neural network. This change resulted
higher robustness from occlusion, change in viewpoint, and in using a

nonstationary camera for lower identity switches. Using a modern GPU, Deep SORT
was found to have a runtime speed of 25–50 FPS using recent conventional GPUs

(Wojke et al., 2017). Due to its suitability for real-time tracking and robustness,
Deep SORT was selected as the tracking algorithm in this study for counting the
pear fruits in real time.

Fig. 11.2 Architecture of Deep SORT (Simple online and real time tracking with deep
association metric)

11.2.3 Fruit Detection Using YOLO

Several studies have utilized YOLO-based models for fruit detection. Koirala et al.
(2019) performed real time mango fruit detection with their Mango-YOLO model
that exhibited an F1 score of 0.968, AP of 98.3% and an inference speed of 14 FPS


on a NVIDIA GeForce GTX 1070 Ti GPU. Liu et al. (2020) and Lawal (2021) also

proposed their own YOLOv3-based tomato detection systems that showed similarly
remarkable AP values of 96.4% and 99.5%, respectively, and a faster speed of

around 19 FPS for both studies using an NVIDIA GeForce GTX 1070 Ti GPU and an
NVIDIA Quadro M4000 GPU, respectively, but this was still not sufficient for real

time detection (≥24 FPS). Li et al. (2021) also developed Lemon-YOLO for detecting
lemon fruits, where they replaced Darknet-53 with an SE_ResGNet34 network.

Their system had an AP of 96.28% and a detection speed of 106 FPS on the high-
powered Tesla V100 GPU. Other studies also evaluated the performance of YOLO-
based models on detecting other fruits such as apple, lemon, banana, and cherry
(Fu et al., 2020; Kang & Chen, 2020; Kuznetsova et al., 2020a, b; Gai et al., 2021;
Kuznetsova et al., 2021; Wu et al., 2021; Yan et al., 2021).

It is important to note that most of the studies did not report loss curves for
their models, thus, it is difficult to verify if overfitting or under fitting of their
dataset occurred. It is also difficult to confirm if they truly achieved the highest
possible performance metrics exhaustively without overfitting.

11.2.4 Real-Time Fruit Counting Using YOLO and an Object Tracking
Algorithm

Only one study combined YOLO with a multiple object tracking algorithm for

counting fruits. Itakura et al. (2021) used YOLOv2 and Kalman filter to count pear
fruits from a video to achieve an AP of 97% in detection and an F1 score in

counting of 0.972. However, the speed of their counting system was not mentioned.

It was also not stated if the tracking algorithm approach was online (current

predictions rely only on past information) or offline (processes all information in

one batch). Online tracking is more suitable for real time counting. Although offline
tracking (also called batch tracking) can be more accurate, processing only occurs
after all observations are obtained, thus making it an unattractive option for real

time counting. Because of the lack of information about their tracking approach, it
is difficult to confirm if their system is truly applicable in real time.

11.3 Materials and Methods

11.3.1 Field Data Collection

RGB video acquisition was done using two different cameras: a DJI Osmo Pocket,
with a 12 MP, 1/2.3″ CMOS sensor and field of view of 80° F2.0, and a mobile phone
camera (16 MP, 1/2.6″ BSI CMOS Sensor, F1.9 lens, with OIS). Video acquisition was
done in a 0.15 ha joint-tree pear orchard (as seen in Fig. 11.3) in the Tsukuba-Plant
Innovation Research Center, University of Tsukuba, Tsukuba, Ibaraki (36°06′56.8″
N, 140°05′37.7″ E) on a cloudy day and a partly cloudy day. The videos were taken


from the bottom side of the trees. The details regarding the videos are outlined in
Table 11.1.

Fig. 11.3 Aerial view of the joint-tree pear orchard (left). Joint-tree pear orchard in the
Tsukuba-Plant Innovation Research Center, University of Tsukuba, Tsukuba, Ibaraki (right)

Table 11.1 Details of video acquisition of pear fruits in the joint-tree pear orchard in the
Tsukuba-Plant Innovation Research Center, University of Tsukuba, Tsukuba, Ibaraki

Date      Time   Weather condition  Device         Resolution, FPS

29 July 2020  12–1 p.m. Cloudy         Mobile Phone Camera 1920 × 1080, 30

6 August 2020 9–10 a.m. Intermittently cloudy DJI Osmo Pocket   3840 × 2160, 60

11.3.2 Data Preparation

11.3.2.1 Videos Were Converted into Image Frames

Videos were converted into image frames using the “Scene video filter” of VLC. An
automatic screenshot of the video was taken at an interval of half a second. For
example, if the video had a frame rate of 60 FPS, one image frame was taken every
after 30 frames. For a 30 FPS video, one image frame was taken every 15 frames.

Next was the elimination of images without pear fruits from the dataset. After
that, the remaining image frames were 314 of 4k resolution images and 134

of 1920 × 1088 resolution images, giving a total of 448 images. The dataset was
further expanded through augmentation.

11.3.2.2 Labelling

Bounding box labelling was done using Supervisely® (Github, n.d.). Its labeling
interface allows precise and efficient labelling, reducing the possibility of human-
error in labelling ground truth data. However, the export format of the labels was
only in Supervisely format (JSON). Other open-source Python-based annotation
tools that export directly in YOLO format include LabelImg (Tzutalin LabelImg,

2021) and OpenLabeling (Cartucho et al., 2018).

Roboflow® was used to convert the Supervisely format labels to the desired
frameworks (such as Darknet, Tensorflow™, PyTorch, etc.). An alternative to


Roboflow is an open-source method of converting Supervisely labels to YOLO
format (Shorten & Khoshgoftaar, 2019).

11.3.2.3 Data Augmentation

It is essential to make the pear fruit detection system more robust to different
scenarios through diverse representation of pear fruits in joint-tree systems in

one’s dataset. However, there may be unavoidable bias present in the dataset that
may not be obvious to the researcher, which can cause overfitting on the training
dataset. To mitigate this possible concern, there is an assumption that more

information can be extracted from the training dataset if the images are

transformed in different ways. This is called data augmentation, which may
simulate a wider representation of pear fruit data in orchards, thus avoiding
possible overfitting to the training dataset. However, how does one decide which
data augmentation techniques should be used?

There are two types of data augmentation: pixel-level and spatial-level. Pixel-

level transformations change the images themselves but leave the bounding boxes
unchanged. Some examples of pixel-level transformations are blurring, changing

the brightness or exposure, adding noise, Cutout, Cutmix, and so on. This is useful if
the researcher wants to preserve the bounding boxes themselves and intends to

not distort the shape of the target object. Spatial-level transformations, on the
other hand, change both the image and the bounding box, which makes the

transformation slightly more complicated to code compared to pixel-level

transformations. However, spatial-level transformations were shown to be more
effective in improving the performance of object detection systems (Shorten &
Khoshgoftaar, 2019). In this study, both kinds were used.

The following image transformations were done to the 4k images.

Random flip (horizontal or vertical.)

Random brightness adjustment from −25% to +25%.
Random adjustment of gamma exposure from −20% to +20%.

Coarse Dropout: up to 6% of the image’s pixels were subject to noise.

Images were resized to the following sizes: 416 × 416, 512 × 512, and

608 × 608. The aspect ratios of the images were preserved by adding black padding
to avoid distorting the aspect ratio of the pear fruits. Through augmentation, the
dataset was expanded from 448 images to 1337 images.

11.3.3 Data Splitting

As mentioned in the previous section, the dataset was comprised of 1337 images.
We adapted a rule-of-thumb in data splitting for dataset sizes from 100 to 10,000,
which was 70:30 for training and validation sets. This is typical for datasets that
have even distribution, meaning the training and validation set are not too different


from each other. However, in this study, the dataset had uneven distribution. High-
resolution images were used in training the neural networks to enable them to
detect smaller objects. Then, the trained neural networks were tested on the target
application of this study, which were lower resolution mobile phone images. One
may think that validating the trained model with a dataset that has a different
distribution does not truly evaluate the performance of the trained model.

However, how can the “learning” performance be truly measured?

Considering the uneven distribution, the dataset was split into four parts in a

70:10:10:10 ratio: training, training-validation, validation and test set. The training
and training-validation set contained the high-resolution images. The training-
validation was the unseen high-resolution images, and was used to check if the

trained model had overfit the training images. Again, the main target of the

detection was pear counting using mobile phones. Thus, the validation and test sets
were comprised of mobile phone images. The validation set’s purpose was to check
if there was a huge data mismatch between the Osmo images and the mobile phone
images. The test set, on the other hand, was used to determine if the model had

overfit the validation set.

11.3.4 Setting the Target Metric

Before training a network, it is important to set the desired error rate or accuracy.
The whole point of training, validation, and optimization is to achieve the desired
error rate or accuracy in detection. The desired error rate can be set at the same

level as the human-level error in application. In pear fruit counting, the error rate
was close to zero.

Accuracy is important in counting fruits. However, a machine that is adept in
counting would be deemed useless if the speed was not real time. Moreover, for

mobile phone use, it is important to consider if the inference should be done using
the phone’s local computational resources or through cloud computing. For
example, if the inference is desired to be done on the device itself, the pear fruit

counter should not require too much computational power. Therefore, for a pear
fruit counter using mobile phones, the aim is to have maximum accuracy that

satisfies the minimum speed requirement, while considering the GPU consumption.

Thus, the goal was the following:

Maximize the accuracy metric given the time-constraints, hardware, and dataset
size available.

Determine the inference speed of the YOLOv4 family and find out which one has
inference speed close to real time (≥24 FPS).

Find out the GPU consumption of the YOLOv4 family in terms of FLOPs. The
CPU and GPU consumption is proportional to the number of FLOPs used (Sehgal &
Kehtarnavaz, 2019).


11.3.5 Evaluation Metrics for the Detection

The performances of the models were evaluated based on the metrics used in the
Pascal VOC Challenge (Everingham et al., 2010), which are listed in Table 11.2. The
first metric is Intersection over Union (IoU), which is the proportion of the

overlapping area and combined area of the bounding boxes of the prediction and
the ground truth object.

Table 11.2 Performance metrics that were used to evaluate the YOLOv4 models are
described below. This evaluation is based on the Pascal VOC Challenge (Everingham et al.,
2010)

Performance metrics

False Negative Rate (FNR) = 1.00 − R

False Positive Rate (FPR) = 1.00 − P

TP true positive, FP false positive, FN false negative

True positive, false positive, and false negative values are prerequisites of the

other performance metrics. A detection is considered a true positive (TP) detection
if the IoU is equal to or greater than 0.5. False positive (FP) predictions are those
having IoU with values below 0.5. False negative (FN) detections were the ground

truth objects that were not detected at all, or those assigned with low confidence in
predictions (eliminated by a certain threshold, which was considered 0.25 in this
research). After calculating TP, FP, and FN, recall, precision, F1 score, and average
precision can be derived. Recall is the sensitivity of the detection system. This
metric is the ratio of true positive detections to total ground truth objects.

Precision is the correctness of the predictions, which is the ratio of the true positive
detections to all positive detections. Next is the F1 score, which summarizes the
overall performance of detection by incorporating both precision and recall. Finally,
average precision (AP) is the area under the precision-recall curve interpolated

from 11 points of recall and precision at different confidence thresholds. It is
similar to the F1 score in the sense that it is one metric that summarizes the
accuracy of a model. However, AP considers the confidence level of the predictions.
Thus, this metric is more often used as a target metric for evaluating the


performance of the models during training, and also for decision making in
choosing the best model among the YOLOv4 models.

11.3.6 Components of the YOLOv4 Models

In this study, the authors compared the performances of YOLOv4, YOLOv4-tiny, and
YOLOv4-CSP on detecting pear fruits. Table 11.3 shows the differences among

these models in terms of their architectural components. In this section, how the

elements of these models contribute to their respective characteristics is discussed
more in detail.

Table 11.3 Comparison of YOLOv4, YOLOv4-CSP, and YOLOv4-tiny in terms of their
architectural elements

Model name Backbone             Neck              Plug-in module

YOLOv4    CSPDarknet53 + Mish activation PANet + Leaky activation   SPP
YOLOv4-CSP  CSPDarknet53 + Mish activation CSPPANet + Mish activation CSPSPP
YOLOv4-tiny  CSPOSANet + Leaky activation  FPN + Leaky Activation    –

11.3.6.1 Cross-Stage Partial (CSP) Connection

Cross-stage Partial (CSP) Connection is a technique to reduce computational

complexity, which is originally derived from CSPNet (Wang et al., 2020b). To “CSP-
ize” a network divides the feature map of the base layer into two parts then merges
the two parts through transition → concatenation → transition (see Fig. 11.4). CSP-
ization improves the accuracy and reduces the inference time through truncation of
gradient flow (Wang et al., 2020a, b). Also, CSP-ization enables scaling of the model.
Because of these reasons, CSP connections were incorporated into the backbone of
the YOLOv4 models. CSPDarknet53 was chosen as the YOLOv4 backbone despite
having lower accuracy in image classification compared to CSPResNext50

(Bochkovskiy et al., 2020). The next section explains why.

Fig. 11.4 Cross-Stage Partial Connection Block in YOLOv4-CSP

11.3.6.2 CSPDarknet53: YOLOv4 and YOLOv4-CSP’s Backbone

Despite CSPResNext50’s better performance in image classification, it was not the
case for object detection. CSP-ization of Darknet53 led to higher accuracy in object
detection due to the following (Wang et al., 2020a):


Higher input network size, which led to the ability to detect more small-sized
objects. More convolutional layers 3 × 3, which led to a larger receptive field to

cover the increased input network size. Larger number of parameters for greater
capacity to detect multiple objects of different sizes in a single image.

Other than CSP-ization, several techniques were used to improve the

performance of CSPDarknet53 without putting a burden on the computational

requirement: (1) data augmentation techniques such as CutMix (Yun et al., 2019)
and Mosaic (Bochkovskiy et al., 2020), (2) DropBlock (Ghiasi et al., 2018) as a

regularization method, and (3) Class label smoothing (Bochkovskiy et al., 2020).
Then, the following techniques were used to make the use of expensive GPUs no
longer necessary in training: (1) Mish (Misra, 2019) as the activation function

(further explained in Sect. 11.3.6.4), and (2) Multi-input weighted residual
connections (Sandler et al., 2018).

11.3.6.3 YOLOv4-tiny’s Backbone: CSPOSANet

For YOLOv4-tiny, it is important to make the computations efficient and fast
without sacrificing much the accuracy. Thus, one shot aggregation (OSA) (shown in
Fig. 11.5), which is derived from VoVNet (Lee et al., 2019), was implemented
between the calculation modules of YOLOv4-tiny’s backbone CSPOSANet for
smaller computation complexity. This resulted in the reduction of the size of the
model and the number of parameters through the removal of an excess amount of
duplicate gradient information. A leaky rectified linear unit was used as the
activation function for CSPOSANet due to its faster speed in convergence (Maas et
al., 2013).

Fig. 11.5 One shot aggregation (OSA)

11.3.6.4 Why Were Leaky Recti𝑓ied Linear Unit and Mish Used as the
Activation Functions for the YOLOv4 Models?

The leaky rectified linear unit (or leaky ReLU) is a modified version of ReLU. The
difference is that the former allows a small nonzero gradient over its entire
domain, unlike ReLU (Fig. 11.6). Deep neural networks utilizing leaky ReLU were


found to reach convergence slightly faster than those using ReLU. However, leaky
ReLU is slightly less accurate, but has lower standard deviations compared to its
more novel counterparts (Misra, 2019). However, leaky ReLu has better

performance with under a 75% IoU threshold and with large objects and has lower
computational cost due to lower complexity (Misra, 2019).

Fig. 11.6 Activation functions. (Left) Rectified Linear Unit (ReLU); (Center) Leaky ReLU;
(Right) Mish

Mish, on the other hand, is a smooth, continuous, self-regularized,

nonmonotonic activation function that enables smoother loss landscapes which
helps in easier optimization and better generalization. It has a wider minimum, and
thus can achieve lower loss. Because of these benefits, neural networks
implementing Mish led to higher accuracy and lower standard deviations in object
detection. Moreover, it retains the feature of its predecessors (Swish and leaky

ReLU) in terms of unbounded above and bounded below. The former avoids
saturation (which generally causes training to slow down), whereas the latter
results in stronger regularization effects (fits the model properly).

Thus, leaky ReLU would be more suitable if the goal was to maximize speed
without sacrificing much of the accuracy. Then, if accuracy should be maximized,
Mish would be the better option. Table 11.4 summarizes the activation functions
used and their corresponding effects on each YOLOv4 model.

Table 11.4 Summary of activation function used and the reason why the specified
activation functions were used

Model    Activation function Effect

YOLOv4    Mish + Leaky ReLU  Balanced accuracy and speed
YOLOv4-CSP Mish          Maximized accuracy

YOLOv4-tiny Leaky ReLU     Maximized speed and Minimum computational cost

11.3.6.5 YOLOv4’s Neck: Path Aggregation Network (PANet)


Path aggregation (shown in Fig. 11.7), originally proposed by Liu et al. (2018), was
used as the neck for YOLOv4 and YOLOv4-CSP in place of FPN (which was used in
YOLOv3). This technique aggregates parameters from different backbone levels for
different detector levels through bottom-up path augmentation and adaptive

feature pooling. Bottom-up path augmentation shortens the information path and
enhances the feature pyramid by making fine-grained localized information
available   to top layers (the classifiers). On the other hand, adaptive feature pooling
recovers the broken information path between each proposal and all feature levels
(cleaner paths are created). It fuses the information together from different layers
using an element-wise max operation. Thus, PANet ensures that important features
are not lost. For these reasons, PANet was used as the neck for YOLOv4 and
YOLOv4-CSP.

Fig. 11.7 Architecture of PANet, which inspired the path aggregation in YOLOv4’s neck. (a)
FPN backbone; (b) bottom-up path augmentation; (c) adaptive feature pooling; (d) box
branch; (e) fully connected fusion (concatenation is done instead of addition for YOLOv4)

11.3.6.6 YOLOv4’s Plug-In Module: Spatial Pyramid Pooling (SPP)

Spatial pyramid pooling (or SPP) is another feature of YOLOv4 and YOLOv4-CSP

that eliminates the need for a fixed-size input image, making them more robust and
practical. SPP is added on top of the last convolutional layer of YOLOv4 and
YOLOv4-CSP. SPP pools the features and generates outputs with fixed length, which
are then fed into the classifier layer (Fig. 11.8). In this study, the pooling was done

through the spatially division of feature maps into different scales of d × d equal
blocks, where d can be {1, 2, 3, …}. These different scales of division forms are


called spatial pyramids. Then, max pooling was done for each level of division to
produce a concatenated 1D vector (originally). SPP works similarly in the YOLOv4
models, but the difference is the input feature map size is equal to the output

feature map size through padding.

Fig. 11.8 Spatial Pyramid Pooling in YOLOv4


11.3.7 Training, Validation, and Optimization

The complete training process was composed of two stages: stage-1 training and
stage-2 training.

11.3.7.1 Stage-1 Training

The Darknet framework (Redmon et al., 2019) was used to train the YOLOv4
models within the Google Colab™ Notebook environment. The GPU used for

training, validation, and inference was Tesla T4. Custom anchors were calculated
using k-means clustering (Table 11.5 for the custom anchors used). Training-time-
augmentation was enabled. The total number of iterations for stage-1 training was
6000.

11.3.7.2 Hyperparameters

Stage-1 training used the linear warmup policy for the first 1000 iterations and
multi-step decay (other terms: piecewise constant decay, stepwise annealing) as

the learning rate schedule policies. The update rule for the multi-step learning rate
schedule was as follows:

(11.1)

where n is the iteration step, LRn is the previous learning rate, d is the decay rate
(d ∈ ℝ ∣ 0 < d < 1), and [steps] is the set of iterations when to decrease the learning
rate. For this study, d = 0.1, [steps] = [4800, 5400], LR₀ = 0.001 for YOLOv4 and

YOLOv4-CSP and 0.00261 for YOLOv4-tiny. The learning rate schedules for the
YOLOv4 models are illustrated at Fig. 11.9.


Fig. 11.9 Learning rate schedule of YOLOv4, YOLOv4-CSP, and YOLOv4-tiny, where
maximum iteration = 6000. For the first 1000 iterations, a linear warm up policy was done,
which is a slow rise of the learning rate. After the 1000th iteration, a multistep decay policy
was done

Regarding the optimizer, Nesterov Accelerated Gradient, momentum, and
weight decay were implemented. The momentum and weight decay were set as

0.949 and 0.0005, respectively, for all the YOLOv4 models. The localization loss was
based on Complete IoU (CIoU) (Zheng et al., 2020), which is illustrated in Fig.

11.10. A complete list of the hyperparameters is shown in Table 11.6.


Fig. 11.10 (Left) The complete YOLOv4 Loss Function; (Right) details of the localization
loss based on Complete Intersection-over-Union loss

11.3.7.3 Stage-2 Training

Stage-2 training involved a fine-tuning process, which confirms if the weights with
the best mAP from stage-1 training had reached its maximum value. The details of
the fine-tuning process can be found in Algorithm 11.1.

11.3.7.4 Error Analysis

For a supervised learning algorithm, the best performance achieves low bias and
low variance. In typical 70:30 data splitting, the purpose of the error analysis is to


determine if the model has achieved the highest possible accuracy without
overfitting to the training data.

However, the aim of data splitting at 70:10:10:10 is to train on high resolution
images (for more robustness) with the goal of having good performance on low
resolution images. Thus, through comparison of each pair of errors in Fig. 11.11,
the error analysis answers the following questions:

Has the model achieved the lowest possible bias?
Did the model overfit on the training data?

Does the train-validation set have high mismatch in data distribution compared
to the validation set?

Did the model overfit on the validation set?

Fig. 11.11 Error analysis to achieve the best possible performance for the model from Stage
A to Stage D. The goal of the error analysis is to reduce the gap on each pair of errors by
performing the strategies found in Table 11.7. The target error (also called Bayes error) is
the  lowest possible detection error, which in this case can be considered as the human error
rate in detecting pears

To avoid data mismatch at Stage C (Fig. 11.11, Table 11.7), data augmentation
was done to the training-validation set to simulate a lower image quality, like that
of a mobile phone image. After passing all the stages in the error analysis, the

optimized models were compared based on their performance on the test set.

11.3.8 Model Comparison

After going through training, validation and optimization, the model that satisfied
the following criteria on the test set was chosen to be the YOLOv4 model for the
pear counting stage of this study. First, it should be the highest in all evaluation
metrics and second, the inference speed should be close to real-time (≥24 FPS).

Lastly, the authors noted the GPU consumption of the chosen model to consider if


in-device inference or cloud computing inference would be ideal for mobile phone
platform implementation.

11.3.9 Pear Counting Using the Selected YOLOv4 Model and Deep
SORT

The best performing YOLOv4 model that satisfied the criteria in the model

comparison was converted to the Tensorflow™ format. Deep SORT, in combination
with YOLOv4, was implemented locally to track the pears in an unseen test mobile
phone video of resolution 1920 × 1080, 32 s long, with a frame rate of 30 FPS. The
hardware specification was as follows: Quad-core Intel® Core™ i7-7700HQ @

2.80 GHz, 16.0 GB RAM and NVIDIA GeForce GTX 1060.

Two counting methods were compared in this study: (1) region-of-interest

(ROI) method and (2) unique object ID method. The ROI method was based on the
number of unique object centroids tracked by Deep SORT that would cross the ROI,
which is a horizontal line. Different ROIs were tested, and 50% of the height of the
video was deemed to be the optimal ROI. For the second method, the counts were
based on the number of unique object IDs generated by Deep SORT’s tracking
mechanism. Figure 11.12 illustrates the pear counting system.

Fig. 11.12 Pear counting system based on YOLOv4-512 and Deep SORT using the ROI-line
method. The number on the top left is the number of objects that crossed the horizontal ROI
line. Unique IDs can be seen on the top left corner of each bounding box

11.3.10 Evaluation Metrics for the Pear Counting

The performance metrics for pear counting are similar to the detection’s evaluation
metrics. However, the authors used the subscript count to denote metrics

associated with pear counting. Additionally, metrics from CLEAR Multiple Object


Tracking (MOT) (Bernardin & Stiefelhagen, 2008), as seen below, were used but
modified in the case of this study. The metrics for pear counting are summarized in
Table 11.8. In this study, the objects themselves were not moving, thus,

mismatches = 0.

Table 11.8 The performance metrics used to evaluate the pear counting methods. This
evaluation is based on the CLEAR MOT Challenge (Bernardin & Stiefelhagen, 2008)

Performance metrics

FN Ratecount = 1.00 − R

FP Ratecount = 1.00 − P

TP true positive, FP false positive, FN false negative, MOTA multiple object tracking
accuracy

11.4 Results and Discussion

The goal of the study was to compare YOLOv4, YOLOv4-tiny, and YOLOv4-CSP in

terms of accuracy, speed, and memory usage. After evaluating which YOLOv4 model
had the best performance in combination with Deep SORT, they were also

evaluated for pear counting use.

11.4.1 Training Details

Table 11.9 outlines the details about the training of the YOLO4 models. YOLOv4-
tiny took less than half an hour for 1000 iterations for all the input sizes. This is
because smaller models take less time in training due to less computational

complexity. In total, it took around 1.4 h to train YOLOv4-tiny completely, which is a
remarkably short time. On the other hand, YOLOv4 had a different training speed to
that of YOLOv4-CSP despite the similar size. The latter was able to train from 2.0 to

2.8 h for 1000 iterations, compared to YOLOv4, which spanned from 2.0 to 3.1 h.
This difference is due to the CSP-ized PAN and SPP architecture of YOLOv4-CSP,
which effectively reduced 40% of the computation (Wang et al., 2020a).

Table 11.9 Details regarding training YOLOv4 models


Model name

YOLOv4-tiny-
416

YOLOv4-tiny-
512

YOLOv4-tiny-
608

YOLOv4-416
YOLOv4-512
YOLOv4-608

YOLOv4-CSP-
512

YOLOv4-CSP-
608

Average training time per 1000
iterations (h)

0.22a

0.23a

0.23a

2.00

2.24

3.10

1.91

2.80

GPU memory usage in
training (GB)

2.22a

2.34a

2.45a

3.08

3.18

3.34

3.06

4.52

Weight sizes
(MB)

22.96

22.97

22.97

249.986

249.998

250.016

205.298

205.316

a Subdivisions = 16

However, examining the loss curves in Fig. 11.13, one gets a clue if the models
have achieved minimum losses and maximum mAP. Based on the loss graphs,
YOLOv4-tiny converged in a quicker manner compared to YOLOv4 and YOLOv4-

CSP. This may be due to the fact that it had a higher learning rate and it used the

leaky ReLU as the activation function. Among the models, YOLOv4-CSP seemed to
converge the slowest which may be due to the computational cost of CSPization
and the use of Mish as the activation function. Upon seeing the differences in

convergence rate within 6000 iterations, YOLOv4 and YOLOv4-CSP were further
trained following the fine-tuning algorithm from Algorithm 11.1 to get the best
possible weight.


Fig. 11.13 Average Loss and Mean Average Precision (mAP) over 6000 iterations for each of
the YOLOv4 models

After the fine-tuning process, error analysis was done, and the results are
shown in Table 11.10. It can be observed that there is an increasing pattern among
the average precision values. Comparing the AP50 train-val and AP50 val, it can be

concluded that the data mismatch between the high-resolution data and lower
resolution data was overcome. Looking at the AP50 val and AP50 test, the values


were also increased. This is a good sign that no overfitting occurred on the
validation set. Confirming from the error analysis, it is possible to perform
comparisons between the performances of the models on the test dataset.

Table 11.10 Average precision for the training-validation set (train-val), validation set (val),
and test set (test) IoU threshold = 50% and Confidence Threshold = 0.5

11.4.2 Model Performance Comparison

To reiterate, the authors set the following goals:

Maximize the detection performance metrics, which were mentioned at Table
11.2.

Determine which YOLOv4 family has an inference speed close to real time (≥24
FPS).

Find out the GPU consumption of the YOLOv4 models.

YOLOv4, YOLOv4-tiny, and YOLOv4-CSP were compared based on the criteria
above. Table 11.11 shows the detection performance of the YOLOv4 models in

terms of P, FPR, R, FNR, F1, and Average IoU on the test dataset. YOLOv4-CSP-608
exhibited the best performance among the metrics. This may be due to the Mish
used  as the activation function and higher network resolution. Thus, the intricate
features of the object could be learned at a deeper sense compared to models at

lower network resolution.

Table 11.11 Performance metrics of the YOLOv4 models in terms of Precision (P), False
Positive Rate (FPR), Recall (R), False Negative Rate (FNR), F1 score and average
Intersection-over-Union (IoU) on the test dataset. Ranking is indicated by color, where
green is first, yellow is second, and orange is third best


Interestingly, in terms of P and FPR, most of the models performed well,
including YOLOv4-tiny. This shows that even the smallest model had promising
accuracy. The second in place in the performance ranking were YOLOv4-512 and
YOLOv4-608. An unexpected outcome was that YOLOv4-512 performed better

compared to YOLOv4-CSP-512.

In counting fruits, FNR was deemed to be better compared to FPR. Looking at
Fig. 11.14, consistent with the results from Table 11.11, the top performing models
were YOLOv4-CSP-608, YOLOv4-512, and YOLOv4-608. However, it is difficult to
ignore the fact that YOLOv4-tiny-608 had comparable performance to YOLOv4-416
with less false positive detections. This shows the potential of YOLOv4-tiny if a
higher network resolution is set. It is possible that YOLOv4-tiny may have
satisfactory performance if the network resolution is increased.


Fig. 11.14 Comparison of YOLOv4 models in terms of the frequency of True Positive, False
Positive, and False Negative detections. The specific values are in Table 11.12

11.4.3 Speed-Accuracy Tradeoff in the YOLOv4 Models

Figure 11.15 shows the tradeoff in speed and accuracy in terms of AP₅₀ on the test
dataset. The specific values can be found in Table 11.12. YOLOv4-512, 416, and
YOLOv4-tiny satisfied the requirement for real-time speed. However, YOLOv4-CSP

seemed to have traded off high accuracy with some speed, although it is a good

thing to note that the speed of YOLOv4-CSP-512 was very close to real time, which
was 21.4 FPS. Another observation was that YOLOv4-608 satisfied the real time
speed requirement of ≥24 FPS at 26.4 FPS. Thus, so far, the best model in terms of
accuracy while satisfying the real-time speed requirement was YOLOv4-608. The
next thing to consider are the metrics in computational power.

Fig. 11.15 Comparison of the YOLOv4 models in terms of accuracy (in this case, average
precision at 50% intersection-over-union threshold) and inference speed (frame per
second)

11.4.4 Average Precision at Different Thresholds

Average precision (AP) became more widely used as an accuracy metric because of
the PASCAL VOC Challenge and COCO Challenge. AP@0.50 is officially used by the
PASCAL VOC Challenge whereas AP@0.75 is considered the “strict metric” for the
COCO Challenge. Huang et al. (2017) compared different convolutional object

detectors in terms of mAP@0.50 and mAP@0.75. Their results showed that their


models with low AP at more restrictive IoU thresholds (mAP@0.75) always showed
low AP at less restrictive IoU thresholds (mAP@0.50).

However, for the YOLOv4 models, this seemed not to be the case (see Fig.

11.16). A possible reason for the different pattern is the differences in receptive
field. Based on observations among state-of-the-art object detection models, the
increase in receptive field was found to be associated with higher classification
accuracy (Araujo et al., 2019). Increase in the receptive field is a natural

consequence of a higher number of layers, so this is one possible reason why
YOLOv4 and YOLOv4-CSP had higher AP.

Fig. 11.16 Average precision (AP) of the YOLOv4 models at 25%, 50%, and 75%
Intersection-over-Union (IoU) thresholds for the test set. The specific values are in Table
11.12

Nevertheless, it is important to note that receptive field size is not the only
contributing factor to the differences in the AP values of the YOLOv4 models.

Another factor that may have affected the performance could be the presence of
residual connections. As seen in Fig. 11.16, YOLOv4-tiny-608 performed better, if

not on par, with YOLOv4-416. Other than an increased receptive field caused by the
higher network resolution, the use of a one-shot aggregation technique in pooling
data in YOLOv4-tiny and CSP connections could have contributed hugely to its

competitive performance. Thus, if YOLOv4-tiny was trained at network resolutions
higher than 608 × 608, it might have very satisfactory accuracy metrics while
maintaining low computational cost.


11.4.5 FLOPS Analysis

Other than metrics measuring the correctness and sensitivity of detection, another
important thing to consider is the computational cost of the YOLOv4 models. The
inference GPU memory usage for each model was noted and can be seen in Fig.

11.17. To also take into account a platform-independent measure of computation,
FLOPS (floating point operations per second) was plotted against the inference
GPU memory usage data. As confirmed from the FLOPs vs. GPU memory usage plot,
YOLOv4-tiny had significantly lower computational requirement compared to
YOLOv4 and YOLOv4-CSP. The bigger models YOLOv4 and YOLOv4-CSP had

comparable computational requirements.

Fig. 11.17 Relationship of Floating Point Operations per Second (FLOPs) with Inference
GPU Memory Usage (left) and Inference Speed (right) for each YOLOv4 model. The specific
values are given in Table 11.12

In addition, FLOPs was plotted against the inference speed, where the speed-
memory tradeoff was observed. YOLOv4-CSP had the slowest inference speed and
was observed to have lower FLOPs values at similar network resolutions compared
to YOLOv4, which had relatively higher memory consumption but faster speed.

YOLOv4-tiny had the best values in terms of speed and computational cost. A
similar pattern is seen in Fig. 11.18, where instead of FLOPs, the GPU memory
usage was plotted against the inference speed of the YOLOv4 models.


Fig. 11.18 Comparison of YOLOv4 models in terms of speed and GPU memory usage at
inference time. The specific values are in Table 11.12

11.4.6 YOLOv4 Models on Illumination and Occlusion Challenges
In an orchard environment, interobject occlusion naturally occurs. Thus, it is
important to be able to detect pears despite this challenge. Moreover, in joint tree

systems, data acquisition was done from the bottom side of the trees, which caused

a high contrast characteristic for the images, making pear detection challenging
even for humans.

As seen from some sample detections in Fig. 11.19, where there is some slight
occlusion and potentially challenging illumination, all the YOLOv4 models
successfully detected the pears in the image despite having a considerable density
of  leaves in the background. With higher degrees of occlusion, the differences
became more evident. In a still challenging illumination condition, but with a
moderate degree of occlusion in Fig. 11.20, YOLOv4-CSP-608 and YOLOv4-tiny-406
(interestingly) successfully detected all the pears. However, in a good illumination
condition and with a high degree of occlusion, only the YOLOv4-CSP models were
able  to successfully detect the pears (Fig. 11.21). YOLO is known to have some
difficulty in detecting small objects (Du, 2018). From an image with pears that
appear smaller and with some degree of occlusion, it was confirmed that YOLOv4-
608 and 512 overcame this limitation of YOLO (Fig. 11.22). However, the limitation
of YOLO in detecting small pears was exacerbated by the presence of occlusion for
the other models.


Fig. 11.19 Example detections from the different YOLOv4 models using an image with
slight occlusion, potentially-challenging illumination and considerable density of leaves


Fig. 11.20 Example detections from the different YOLOv4 models using an image with
moderate degree of occlusion and potentially challenging illumination


Fig. 11.21 Example detections from the different YOLOv4 models using a close-up image
with a high degree of occlusion but good illumination


Fig. 11.22 Example detections from the different YOLOv4 models using a nonclose-up
image with a moderate degree of occlusion

11.4.7 Comparison of the Pear Counting Methods

Two methods of pear counting were evaluated: through an ROI line and through

counting the unique IDs. The differences between the two method’s performances
are summarized in Table 11.13. The unique ID-based method performed better for
most performance metrics in counting, specifically on MOTA, FN rate, Recallcount
and F1count. Since the unique ID-based method has a less restrictive nature, it is


more sensitive in counting, thus, had lower false negative rate and higher recall.

However, the ROI line-based method filtered out false positive detections

effectively, as shown by its FP rate of 1.89%. Due to its more restrictive nature, it
also more correct detections than the unique ID-based method, as shown by its
higher FP rate and Precisioncount. However, the lack of sensitivity of the ROI-line
based method was too disadvantageous, resulting in a very low Recallcount of

58.49%. Thus, overall, the unique ID-based method had the best sensitivity and
correctness tradeoff, as shown by its higher F1count of 87.85%.

Table 11.13 Pear counting performance metrics of the pear counting system based on
YOLOv4 and Deep SORT on a 1920 × 1080 video between the two approaches in counting:
unique-ID based and region-of-interest (ROI) based. Values in bold face are the higher ones
between the counting approaches

Counting metrics          %

Unique-ID based ROI-line based

MOTA        75.47       56.60

FN rate       11.32       41.51

FP rate       13.21       1.89

Precisioncount   87.04       96.88

Recallcount     88.68       58.49

F1count       87.85       72.94

11.4.8 Breakdown of the False Negative Counts in the ROI Line-
Based Counting

The ROI line-based method had a low sensitivity in its counts but a very high

correctness. How can we improve the sensitivity of an ROI line-based system? The
authors observed the behavior of the pear objects that were detected by YOLOv4
but missed by the ROI line, which is summarized in Fig. 11.23. Of the false negative
counts, 73% were actually detected by YOLOv4. Of the false negative counts 50%
were detected only after passing the ROI Line. This might be due to the limitation of
the computational resources, which might have been overcome using a higher-end
GPU device. Twenty-three percent of the false negative counts were detected just
before or while crossing the line, and this could be attributed to the limitation of
Deep SORT’s tracking ability in challenging illumination and increased occlusion
due to its reliance on appearance information in tracking. To tackle this limitation,
it is recommended to switch the priority to motion information instead of
appearance in challenging illuminations to achieve better performance and

robustness.


Fig. 11.23 Breakdown of the false negative counts in the region-of-interest line-based
counting method

11.5 Conclusions

This study aimed to produce a robust real-time pear fruit counter for mobile
applications using only RGB datasets with state-of-the-art object detection models
(YOLOv4 models) and the MOT algorithm Deep SORT. In addition, we provided a
systematic and pragmatic method for choosing the most suitable model for a
desired application in agricultural sciences for further application. In terms of
accuracy, YOLOv4-CSP was the optimal model with an AP of 98%. In terms of speed
and computational cost, YOLOv4-tiny showed a very promising performance at a

comparable rate with YOLOv4 at the lower network resolutions. If considering the
balance in terms of accuracy, speed and computational cost, YOLOv4 was found to
be the most suitable, with an AP > 96%, inference speed of 37.3 FPS and FN Rate of
6%. Thus, YOLOv4-512 was chosen as the detection model for the pear counting
system with Deep SORT. Between the unique ID method and ROI Line method in

counting, the former was found to be more reliable compared to the ROI-line
method in counting the pears, as characterized by its F1count of 87.85%. It is
important to note that this is the case because YOLOv4 had very low false negative
detections. The ROI line could be more reliable because of its more restrictive

nature, but due to flickering in detection it was not able to count some pears
despite their being detected.

To fully maximize the accuracy of detection, cloud computing is recommended
with YOLOv4-CSP in mobile applications instead of using the local resources of the
mobile phone. If the cost of running a cloud computing service is the concern,

Amazon’s cloud services (AWS) support YOLOv4, where 1 million inferences is


charged USD 1.362 (2 h) using the server inf1.xlarge in the us-east-1 region. The
downside would be requirement to have an internet connection. If on-device

inference is preferred, training YOLOv4-tiny at higher network resolutions may be
the best option. However, even YOLOv4-tiny requires at least about 2 GB of GPU;

thus, low-end mobile phones would not be able to utilize it.

To combat possible flickering problems of the tracking algorithm, counting the
unique IDs that tracked for a specific lifespan duration, such as more than 80% of
the lifespan, is recommended.

Acknowledgments

Thanks to Open Access Publishers Sensors from MDPI to have their policy to
support the authors for reusing of the published article. In this regard, we would
like to extend our gratitude to Sensors Journal to publish this article (Addie Ira
Borja Parico and Tofael Ahamed. Real Time Pear Fruit Detection and Counting

Using YOLOv4 Models and Deep SORT, Sensors 2021, 21(14), 4803; https://doi.
org/10.3390/s21144803). The authors would like to thank the Tsukuba Plant

Innovation Research Center (T-PIRC), University of Tsukuba, for providing facilities
for conducting this research in its orchards.

Conflicts of Interest  The authors declare no conflicts of interest.

Appendix

Table 11.5 Anchors of the YOLOv4 models

Model name    Anchors                               Anchor mask indices

First  Second  Third

YOLOv4-tiny-416 8, 8, 17, 17, 35, 27, 40, 42, 60, 50, 77, 72              5     0, 1, 2, 3, 4 –

YOLOv4-tiny-512 8, 8, 15, 15, 28, 25, 46, 42, 66, 58, 93, 85              4, 5    0, 1, 2, 3  –

YOLOv4-tiny-608 12, 12, 28, 24, 44, 45, 66, 54, 82, 78, 117, 100           4, 5    0, 1, 2, 3  –

YOLOv4-416    5, 5, 9, 9, 14, 14, 22, 19, 29, 33, 52, 22, 42, 40, 56, 53, 80, 67    0, 1, 2, 3 4, 
5, 6, 7  8

YOLOv4-512    7, 8, 12, 12, 18, 18, 28, 25, 39, 43, 61, 29, 56, 54, 81, 69, 102, 97  0, 1, 2, 3 4, 
5, 6   7, 8

YOLOv4-608    8, 9, 15, 15, 26, 22, 37, 34, 24, 60, 61, 43, 63, 64, 85, 78, 117, 100 0, 1, 2  3, 4, 
5    6, 7, 8

YOLOv4-CSP-512 7, 8, 12, 12, 18, 18, 28, 25, 39, 43, 61, 29, 56, 54, 81, 69, 102, 97  0, 1, 2, 3 4, 
5, 6   7, 8

YOLOv4-CSP-608 8, 9, 15, 15, 26, 22, 37, 34, 24, 60, 61, 43, 63, 64, 85, 78, 117, 100 0, 1, 2  3, 
4, 5   6, 7, 8

Table 11.6 Hyperparameters of the YOLOv4 models

Model name       Batch Subdivisions Momentum Decay Initial learning rate

YOLOv4-tiny       64   16        0.9      0.0005 0.00261

YOLOv4 or YOLOv4-CSP 64   16       0.949     0.0005 0.001


Table 11.7 Strategies in reducing error gap in the error analysis. The stages were defined in
Fig. 11.11

Stage How to reduce the gap?

A.1  • Train longer

• Train a bigger model

• Use more effective optimization algorithms

• Momentum, RMS Prop, Adam

• Try other neural network architectures or hyperparameters

B.1  • Add more to training set

• Perform regularization methods to improve generalizing ability

• L2, Dropout, Data augmentation

• Try other neural network architectures or hyperparameters

C.1  • Make training data more similar to val/test set

• Collect more data similar to val/test set

• Consider generating synthetic dataset

• Note: overfitting to the synthetic dataset is a risk

D.1  • Increase the val set size

Table 11.12 Performance metrics of the YOLOv4 models on the Test Dataset (Complete)


Model
name

YOLOv4-

tiny-416

YOLOv4-

tiny-512

YOLOv4-

tiny-608

YOLOv4-
416

YOLOv4-
512

YOLOv4-
608

YOLOv4-
CSP-512

YOLOv4-
CSP-608

P

1.00

0.98

1.00

0.98

1.00

1.00

1.00

1.00

R

0.87

0.88

0.89

0.90

0.94

0.94

0.92

0.95

F1

0.93

0.93

0.94

0.94

0.97

0.97

0.96

0.98

Average
IoU

83.06

83.13

85.85

82.37

85.77

86.75

86.16

87.18

AP25

95.1897

95.7535

95.5740

95.9052

96.9504

97.4674

97.8568

99.0726

AP50

94.0893

93.5346

94.1936

93.7559

96.6365

96.7600

97.1558

98.3243

AP75

70.6543

77.9119

80.1209

79.6057

87.5749

87.9839

86.8072

86.6339

BFLOPs

6.789

10.283

14.500

59.571

90.235

127.232

76.142

107.359

Inference
speed
(FPS)

59.4

54.4

50.3

46.1

37.3

26.4

21.4

20.1

Inference
memory
usage
(GB)

2.07

2.11

2.15

2.60

2.78

3.04

2.62

2.79

TP FP FN

261 1  39

264 6  36

268 0  32

271 6  29

283 0  17

283 1  17

276 0  24

286 0  14


Algorithm 11.1 Pseudocode of the Fine-Tuning Process in Stage 2
Training of the YOLOv4 Models

i = 0 for 1st training, 1 for 2nd training
LRi = learning rate for (i + 1)thtraining
mAPi = best mAP for (i + 1)thtraining
N  = iteration with the best mAP

wi = weights with the best mAP for (i + 1)thtraining
d = decay rate

step1=first time the learning rate was decreased
if No < step1 then

train at LR1 = d × LR0 for No + 1000

if mAP0 < mAP1 then

train at LR1 = d2 × LR0 for N1 + 1000

if mAP1 < mAP2 then
select w2

else then
select w1

else then
select w0

else then

train at LR1 = d2 × LR0 for No + 1000
if mAP0 < mAP1 then

select w1
else then

select w0

References

Araujo, A., Norris, W., & Sim, J. (2019). Computing receptive fields of convolutional neural
networks. Distill. https://doi.org/10.23915/distill.00021

Bernardin, K., & Stiefelhagen, R. (2008). Evaluating multiple object tracking performance:
The CLEAR MOT metrics. EURASIP Journal on Image and Video Processing, 2008, 1–10.
https://doi.org/10.1155/2008/246309

[Crossref]


Bewley, A., Ge, Z., Ott, L., Ramos, F., & Upcroft, B. (2016) Simple online and realtime tracking.
In Proceedings of the 2016 IEEE International Conference on Image Processing (ICIP), 25–28
September 2016 (pp. 3464–3468). IEEE.

Bochkovskiy, A., Wang, C.-Y., & Liao, H.-Y. M. (2020). YOLOv4: Optimal speed and accuracy of
object detection. arXiv, 2004.10934.

Cartucho, J., Ventura, R., & Veloso, M. (2018). Robust object recognition through symbiotic
deep learning in mobile robots. In Proceedings of the 2018 IEEE/RSJ International Conference
on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), Madrid, Spain, 1–5 October 2018 (pp. 2336–2341).
IEEE.

Du, J. (2018). Understanding of object detection based on CNN family and YOLO. Journal of
Physics Conference Series, 1004, 012029. https://doi.org/10.1088/1742-6596/1004/1/

012029

[Crossref]

Everingham, M., Van Gool, L., Williams, C. K. I., Winn, J., & Zisserman, A. (2010). The pascal
visual object classes (VOC) challenge. International Journal of Computer Vision, 88, 303–338.
https://doi.org/10.1007/s11263-009-0275-4

[Crossref]

Fu, L., Duan, J., Zou, X., Lin, J., Zhao, L., Li, J., & Yang, Z. (2020). Fast and accurate 
detection of
banana fruits in complex background orchards. IEEE Access, 8, 196835–196846. https://doi.
org/10.1109/access.2020.3029215

[Crossref]

Gai, R., Chen, N., & Yuan, H. (2021). A detection algorithm for cherry fruits based on the
improved YOLO-v4 model. Neural Computing and Applications. https://doi.org/10.1007/
s00521-021-06029-z

Ghiasi, G., Lin, T.-Y., & Le, Q. V. (2018). DropBlock: A regularization method for convolutional
networks. In Proceedings of the NIPS’18: Proceedings of the 32nd International Conference on

Neural Information Processing Systems (pp. 10750–10760). Curran Associates.

Github. (n.d.). Lyjourney supervisely2yolo. Retrieved January 3, 2021, from https://github.
com/lyjourney/supervisely2yolo

Huang, J., Rathod, V., Sun, C., Zhu, M., Korattikara, A., Fathi, A., Fischer, I., Wojna, Z., Song, 
Y.,
Guadarrama, S. et al. (2017). Speed/accuracy trade-offs for modern convolutional object
detectors. In Proceedings of the 2017 IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern

Recognition (CVPR) (pp. 3296–3297). IEEE.

Huang, Z., Wang, J., Fu, X., Yu, T., Guo, Y., & Wang, R. (2020). DC-SPP-YOLO: Dense connection
and spatial pyramid pooling based YOLO for object detection. Information Sciences, 522,
241–258. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ins.2020.02.067

[Crossref]


Itakura, K., Narita, Y., Noaki, S., & Hosoi, F. (2021). Automatic pear and apple detection by
videos using deep learning and a Kalman filter. OSA Continum, 4, 1688. https://doi.org/10.
1364/OSAC.424583

[Crossref]

Kalman, R. E. (1960). A new approach to linear filtering and prediction problems. Journal of
Basic Engineering, 82, 35–45. https://doi.org/10.1115/1.3662552

[Crossref]

Kamilaris, A., & Prenafeta-Boldú , F. X. (2018a). Deep learning in agriculture: A survey.
Computers and Electronics in Agriculture, 147, 70–90. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.
2018.02.016

[Crossref]

Kamilaris, A., & Prenafeta-Boldú , F. X. (2018b). A review of the use of convolutional neural
networks in agriculture. The Journal of Agricultural Science, 156, 312–322. https://doi.org/
10.1017/S0021859618000436

[Crossref]

Kang, H., & Chen, C. (2020). Fast implementation of real-time fruit detection in apple
orchards using deep learning. Computers and Electronics in Agriculture, 168, 105108. https://
doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.2019.105108

[Crossref]

Koirala, A., Walsh, K. B., Wang, Z., & McCarthy, C. (2019). Deep learning for real-time fruit
detection and orchard fruit load estimation: Benchmarking of ‘MangoYOLO’. Precision

Agriculture, 20, 1107–1135. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11119-019-09642-0
[Crossref]

Kuhn, H. W. (1955). The Hungarian method for the assignment problem. Naval Research
Logistics Quarterly, 2, 83–97. https://doi.org/10.1002/nav.3800020109

[Crossref]

Kuznetsova, A., Maleva, T., & Soloviev, V. (2020a). Detecting apples in orchards using
YOLOv3 and YOLOv5 in general and close-up images. In Lecture notes in computer science
(including subseries Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence and Lecture Notes in Bioinformatics)
(Vol. 12249, pp. 233–243). Springer. ISBN 9783030587987.

Kuznetsova, A., Maleva, T., & Soloviev, V. (2020b). Using YOLOv3 algorithm with pre- and
post-processing for apple detection in fruit-harvesting robot. Agronomy, 10, 1016. https://
doi.org/10.3390/agronomy10071016

[Crossref]

Kuznetsova, A., Maleva, T., & Soloviev, V. (2021). YOLOv5 versus YOLOv3 for apple detection.

In A. G. Kravets, A. A. Bolshakov, & M. Shcherbakov (Eds.), Cyber-physical systems: Modelling
and intelligent control. Studies in systems, decision and control (Vol. 338, pp. 349–358).

Springer.


Lawal, M. O. (2021). Tomato detection based on modified YOLOv3 framework. Scientific
Reports, 11, 1447. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-021-81216-5

[Crossref][PubMed][PubMedCentral]

Leal-Taixé, L., Milan, A., Reid, I., Roth, S., & Schindler, K. (2015). MOTChallenge 2015:
Towards a benchmark for multi-target tracking. arXiv, 1504.01942.

Lee, Y., Hwang, J., Lee, S., Bae, Y., & Park, J. (2019). An energy and GPU-computation efficient
backbone network for real-time object detection. In Proceedings of the 2019 IEEE/CVF

Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition Workshops (CVPRW), Long Beach, CA,
USA, 16–17 June 2019 (pp. 752–760). IEEE.

Li, G., Huang, X., Ai, J., Yi, Z., & Xie, W. (2021). Lemon-YOLO: An efficient object detection
method for lemons in the natural environment. IET Image Processing, 15, 1–12. https://doi.
org/10.1049/ipr2.12171

[Crossref]

Lin, T.-Y., Dollár, P., Girshick, R., He, K., Hariharan, B., & Belongie, S. (2016). Feature pyramid
networks for object detection. arXiv, 1612.03144.

Liu, S.; Qi, L.; Qin, H.; Shi, J.; Jia, J. Path aggregation network for instance segmentation.
2018.

[Crossref]

Liu, G., Nouaze, J. C., Mbouembe, P. L. T., & Kim, J. H. (2020). YOLO-tomato: A robust
algorithm for tomato detection based on YOLOv3. Sensors (Switzerland), 20, 1–21. https://
doi.org/10.3390/s20072145

[Crossref]

Maas, A. L., Hannun, A. Y., & Ng, A. Y. (2013). Rectifier nonlinearities improve neural network
acoustic models. In Proceedings of the ICML Workshop on Deep Learning for Audio, Speech and
Language Processing, Atlanta, GA, USA, 16–21 June 2013 (Vol. 28).

Misra, D. (2019). Mish: A self-regularized non-monotonic neural activation function. arXiv.

Redmon, J., & Farhadi, A. (2017). YOLO9000: Better, faster, stronger. In 30th IEEE Conference
on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), CVPR 2017 (pp. 6517–6525). IEEE.
https://doi.org/10.1109/CVPR.2017.690

Redmon, J., & Farhadi, A. (2018). YOLOv3: An incremental improvement. arXiv, arXiv:1804.
1–6.

Redmon, J., Divvala, S., Girshick, R., & Farhadi, A. (2015). You only look once: Unified, real-
time object detection. Journal of Chemical & Engineering Data, 27, 306–308. https://doi.org/
10.1021/je00029a022

[Crossref]


Redmon, J., Bochkovskiy, A., & Sinigardi, S. (2019). Darknet: Yolov3 - Neural network for object
detection. Github. Retrieved June 17, 2019, from https://github.com/AlexeyAB/darknet

Ren, S., He, K., Girshick, R., & Sun, J. (2017). Faster R-CNN: Towards real-time object
detection with region proposal networks. IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine
Intelligence, 39, 1137–1149. https://doi.org/10.1109/TPAMI.2016.2577031

[Crossref][PubMed]

Sandler, M., Howard, A., Zhu, M., Zhmoginov, A., & Chen, L.-C. (2018). MobileNetV2: Inverted
residuals and linear bottlenecks. In Proceedings of the 2018 IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer
Vision and Pattern Recognition, Salt Lake City, UT, USA, 18–23 June 2018 (pp. 4510–4520).

IEEE..

Sehgal, A., & Kehtarnavaz, N. (2019). Guidelines and benchmarks for deployment of deep
learning models on smartphones as real-time apps. Machine Learning and Knowledge

Extraction, 1, 450–465. https://doi.org/10.3390/make1010027
[Crossref]

Shorten, C., & Khoshgoftaar, T. M. (2019). A survey on image data augmentation for deep
learning. Journal of Big Data, 6, 60. https://doi.org/10.1186/s40537-019-0197-0
[Crossref]

Tzutalin LabelImg. (2021). Retrieved January 3, 2021, from https://github.com/tzutalin/
labelImg

Wang, C.-Y., Bochkovskiy, A., & Liao, H.-Y. M. (2020a). Scaled-YOLOv4: Scaling cross stage
partial network. arXiv, arXiv:2011.08036.

Wang, C.-Y., Mark Liao, H.-Y., Wu, Y.-H., Chen, P.-Y., Hsieh, J.-W., & Yeh, I.-H. (2020b). CSPNet: 
A

new backbone that can enhance learning capability of CNN. In Proceedings of the 2020
IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition Workshops (CVPRW), Seattle,
WA, USA, 14-19 June 2020 (pp. 1571–1580). IEEE.

Wojke, N., Bewley, A., & Paulus, D. (2017). Simple online and realtime tracking with a deep
association metric. In Proceedings of the 2017 IEEE International Conference on Image

Processing (ICIP), Beijing, China, 17–20 September 2017 (pp. 3645–3649). IEEE.

Wu, L., Ma, J., Zhao, Y., & Liu, H. (2021). Apple detection in complex scene using the
improved YOLOv4 model. Agronomy, 11, 476. https://doi.org/10.3390/agronomy11030476
[Crossref]

Yan, B., Fan, P., Lei, X., Liu, Z., & Yang, F. (2021). A real-time apple targets detection method
for picking robot based on improved YOLOv5. Remote Sensing, 13, 1619. https://doi.org/10.
3390/rs13091619

[Crossref]

Yun, S., Han, D., Chun, S., Oh, S. J., Yoo, Y., & Choe, J. (2019). CutMix: Regularization strategy
to train strong classifiers with localizable features. In Proceedings of the 2019 IEEE/CVF


International Conference on Computer Vision (ICCV), Seoul, Korea, 27 October–2 November
2019 (pp. 6022–6031). IEEE.

Zheng, Z., Wang, P., Liu, W., Li, J., Ye, R., & Ren, D. (2020). Distance-IoU loss: Faster and
better learning for bounding box regression. Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial
Intelligence, 34, 12993–13000. https://doi.org/10.1609/aaai.v34i07.6999

[Crossref]


© The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd. 2023

T. Ahamed (ed.), IoT and AI in Agriculture

https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-19-8113-5_12

12. Pear Recognition System in an Orchard from 3D Stereo Camera
Datasets                                              Using Deep Learning Algorithms

Siyu Pan¹ and Tofael Ahamed²

(1) Graduate School of Science and Technology, University of Tsukuba, Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan

(2) Faculty of Life & Environmental Sciences, University of Tsukuba, Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan

Tofael Ahamed

Email: tofael.ahamed.gp@u.tsukuba.ac.jp

Abstract

In orchard fruit picking systems for pears, the challenge is to identify the full shape of the soft 
fruit to avoid
injuries while using robotic or automatic picking systems. Advancements in computer vision have 
brought

the potential to train for different shapes and sizes of fruit using deep learning algorithms. In 
this research, a
fruit recognition method for robotic systems was developed to identify pears in a complex orchard

environment using a 3D stereo camera combined with mask region-convolutional neural networks (Mask 
R-
CNNs) deep learning technology to obtain targets. This experiment used 9054 RGBA original images 
(3018
original images and 6036 augmented images) to create a dataset divided into a training, validation, 
and

testing sets. Furthermore, we collected the dataset under different lighting conditions at 
different times
which were high light (9–10 am) and low light (6–7 pm) conditions at JST, Tokyo Time, August 2021

(summertime) to prepare training, validation, and test datasets at a ratio of 6:3:1. All the images 
were taken
by                                                             a 3D stereo camera which included 
PERFORMANCE, QUALITY, and ULTRA models. We used the
PERFORMANCE model to capture images to make the datasets; the camera on the left generated depth
images and the camera on the right generated the original images. In this research, we compared the

performance of different types with the R-CNN model (Mask R-CNN and Faster R-CNN), and we also

compared the performance of same types of instance segmentation model (Mask R-CNN and YOLACT) the
mean Average Precisions (mAP) of Mask R-CNN, Faster R-CNN and YOLACT were compared in the same
datasets with the same ratio. Each epoch in Mask R-CNN was set at 500 steps with total 80 epochs, 
Faster R-
CNN was set at 40,000 steps, the YOLACT was set at 400,000 iterations for training. For the 
recognition of
pears,                                                            the Mask R-CNN, had the mAPs of 
95.22% for validation set and 99.45% was observed for the testing
set. On the other hand, mAPs were observed 87.9% in the validation set and 87.52% in the testing 
set using
Faster R-CNN. The mAPs of YOLACT was 87.07% in validation set, 97.89% in testing set. The different
models using the same dataset had differences in performance in gathering clustered pears and 
individual
pear situations. Mask R-CNN outperformed Faster R-CNN and YOLACT when the pears are densely 
clustered
at the complex orchard. Therefore, the 3D stereo camera-based dataset combined with the Mask R-CNN
vision algorithm had high accuracy in detecting the individual pears from gathered pears in a 
complex

orchard environment.

Keywords Mask R-CNN – 3D stereo camera – Pear detection

12.1 Introduction

Modern fruit harvesting is mainly conducted by human labor and is roughly the same in different 
regions of
the world. However, it requires human involvement and thus, complexity and labor hiring from 
overseas.

The globalization of the COVID-19 pandemic and its economic impact has wreaked havoc on all 
economies
around                                                           the world, pushing many into 
recession and possibly even economic depression (Barua, 2020).

Furthermore, the aging and availability of labor are concerns. Among common fruits, the pear stands 
out as
an                                                         essential fruit type for daily life. For 
example, the Japanese pear (such as Pyrus pyrifolia Nakai) is one of


the most widely grown fruit trees in Japan and has been used throughout the country’s history 
(Saito, 2016).

Regardless of the harvest season, due to the need for a large number of laborers for picking and a 
shortage
of                                                        labor, the cost of pear picking has 
gradually increased.

The world labor force is predicted to decline by approximately 30% between 2017 and 2030 (Schrder,
2014). With the development of agricultural machinery, modern agricultural technology has gradually
evolved from manual planting and picking to full automation and intelligence. Since the 1990s, with 
the
development of computers and information technology, artificial intelligence and machine vision in
agricultural machinery have become more effective and popular (Wei et al., 2014). Since most 
agricultural

work involves repetitive content operations, one of the most popular agricultural robots is the 
picking robot.
Over time, most countries in the world have developed intelligent picking robots through different 
methods
and techniques to load and unload agricultural products and detect fruit and positioning issues 
(Bechar &

Vigneault, 2016). Therefore, for relatively delicate and soft fruits such as pears, the use of 
picking robots can
greatly increase productivity. However, in recent studies, object detection in picking robots was 
reported to
cause injuries due to grasping or using shear to detach the fruit from the branch (Hannan & Burks, 
2004).

The successful picking of soft pears depends on the recognition of the shape of the pears to 
understand the
curved surface of the fruit. In classical image processing, it is challenging to recognize fruits, 
as shapes and
sizes vary in orchards. In addition, illumination is a concern in dense canopies. Variability 
occurs in the
detection of pears due to their size, shape, and illumination. Therefore, a large number of 
training datasets

including size, shape, and illumination variabilities are needed to address the challenges of pear 
detection in
complex orchard environments.

Deep learning has become a potential method to overcome the limitation of conventional segmentation
in                                                         image analysis. It is one of the 
subfields of machine learning and has now developed a variety of different
architectures (Ertam & Aydın, 2017). Self-Organizing Feature Map (SOFM) is the ability of the 
discussed

neural network to determine the degree of similarity that occurs between classes. It is also a 
method that
belongs to deep learning. Among other things, SOFM networks can be used as detectors that indicate 
the
emergence of a widely understood novelty. Such a network can also look for similarities between 
known
data and noisy data (Boniecki & Piekarska-Boniecka, 2004). Additionally, deep learning includes 
artificial
neural networks (ANNs) (LeCun et al., 2015) and neural networks extracted by convolutional neural

networks (CNNs) by fully connected layers (FCNs), where CNNs preserve the spatial relationships 
between
pixels by learning internal features using small pictures of the input data (Krizhevsky et al., 
2012).

Intelligent robot vision processing of target plants has become an indispensable step in 
agricultural
intelligence                                                  and many excellent target detection 
methods are now widely used in the development of
agricultural robots as target detection continues to develop. The first types was two-stage method

(detection and segmentation) included Fast R-CNN (Girshick, 2015) and Faster R-CNN (Ren et al., 
2015),
which                                                          have roughly the same principle of 
selecting the region of interest by region feature network (RPN)
(He et al., 2017) and then transmitting to the head layer to generate the edges as well as the 
species. With

the demand for accuracy in target detection, Mask R-CNN (He et al., 2017) was introduced, which 
adds FPN
(He                                                            et al., 2017) to the backbone layer 
based on Faster R-CNN and adds a new branch in the head layer to

generate more accurate masks. The second type is one-stage detection included You Only Look Once 
(YOLO)
(Redmon                                                             et al., 2016) and You Only Look 
At Coefficient Ts (YOLACT) (Bolya et al., 2019) which focuses on

the detection of targets; all detection results are lower than the above models but faster than the 
above
models. However, due to the demand for accuracy in target detection, the Mask R-CNN detection speed 
is
slower than that of other detection models (Dorrer & Tolmacheva, 2020).

Some identification techniques identify by evaluating, extracting, and recognizing color, because, 
in the
food                                                         industry, color is an identifier used 
by producers and processing engineers as well as consumers and is
the most direct way of identification (Sobol et al., 2020). Therefore, color extraction is also 
widely used in
identification technology. Boniecki et al. (2010) analyzed the classification ability of 
Kohonen-type neural
models learned using “unsupervised” methods. Classification of three selected apple varieties 
frequently

found in Polish orchards was carried out. The neural classification was based on information 
encoded in the
form of a set of digital images of apples and dried carrots. Representation in the form of a 
palette of the main
colors occurring in fruits and dried vegetables and selected shape coefficients were used as a 
basis for the

classification (Boniecki et al., 2010).

However, it is not enough for deep learning. Most of the deep learning methods were limited to RGB
images which have a limitation of depth information. In a recent study, a thermal camera was used 
to detect


tree trunks in a complex orchard. However, in comparing a tree trunk to some fruit, there is more 
complexity
in                                                       detecting and measuring the distance for 
picking information (Jiang et al., 2022). A 3D stereo camera has

further advantages in addition to conventional camera sensors. The 3D stereo camera mimics and 
imitates
the                                                      human eye imaging principle. With the 
powerful visual system of the human eye, the perception of the
third dimension (depth) is derived from the difference between the image formed by the left eye and 
the

right eye. Because of this difference, the human eye visual system introduces the third dimension 
(depth),
and                                                        the 3D stereo camera receives biological 
inspiration to detect the depth information of an object by
extracting three dimensions of information from the digital image and using it for 3D 
reconstruction. In

addition, the camera perceives the depth of objects in the range of 1–20 m at 100 FPS (Ortiz et 
al., 2018). By
detecting complex situations in orchards with a 3D stereo camera combined with Mask R-CNN vision
algorithms, specified fruits can be detected.

Mask R-CNN is conceptually simple and was proposed by He et al. (2017). It is a flexible, 
pass-through
object                                                   instance segmentation framework. This 
method can efficiently detect objects in images while

generating high-quality segmentation masks for each instance. Mask R-CNN was also used for instance
segmentation                                                        of detected objects and the 
evaluation of human poses (He et al., 2017). Several studies have
shown that Mask R-CNN can be used for the detection of some fruits. Jia et al. (2020) used a series 
of apple
images with a size of 6000 × 4000-pixel resolution under natural light using a Canon camera for 
cloudy and
sunny weather conditions (Jia et al., 2020). Yu et al. (2019) proposed a Mask R-CNN-based algorithm 
to
detect and quantify wild strawberries, and the fruit detection results of 100 test images showed an 
average
detection accuracy of 95.78% and a recall rate of 95.41% (Yu et al., 2019). All of the above 
results showed

that Mask R-CNN can be used for instance segmentation. In the above study, RGB images were used, 
which
did                                                         not cover the depth information of the 
distance. However, Mask R-CNN with a 3D stereo camera can be
further used for complex canopy and the weight files produced by the dataset produced by the common
dataset. However, the 3D stereo camera has problems such as recognition errors and difficulty in 
obtaining
depth information when detecting in real time. If the additional function has the depth information 
of the
garden, then masking in terms of shape and size is still possible.

Mask R-CNN extended the object detection framework of Faster R-CNN by adding an additional branch at
the end of the model, thus achieving instance segmentation for each output suggestion frame using a 
fully

connected layer (Cai & Vasconcelos, 2019). Unlike ROI-Pooling of Faster R-CNN, ROI-Pooling inputs 
an image
and                                                         multiple regions of interest (ROIs) 
into a feature map of fixed size, which was then mapped to a feature
vector by a fully connected network (FCN) (Krizhevsky et al., 2012). However, ROI-Align in Mask 
R-CNN

canceled the quantization of ROI-Pooling twice and retained the decimals, and then used bilinear

interpolation (Kirkland, 2010) to obtain the image values on pixel points with floating-point 
coordinates.
This was because although the quantization did not affect the classification in the work, it had a 
significant
negative                                                    impact on predicting the exact mask for 
pears in the orchard (He et al., 2017).

However, the complexity of orchards causes difficulty in detection, such as the presence of leaf 
shading,
overlapping fruits, insufficient light, interruption of light due to nets over the canopy, and more 
shadows in
orchards, which affect the detection results. Faster R-CNN was used to detect peppers, melons, and 
apples
using multiple vision sensors (Sa et al., 2016), and although high detection accuracy was achieved, 
the
detection of overlapping fruits was greatly reduced. Mask R-CNN has the potential to help overcome

problems with size, shape, and illumination. Since the Mask R-CNN uses instance segmentation, it 
can over
detect                                                        different individuals of the same 
species, so overlapping parts of the fruit can also be detected

precisely and variability in shape can be adjusted, thus improving the accuracy of detection. 
Therefore, the
purpose of this research is to develop a pear recognition system using instance segmentation based 
on a
Mask RCNN from 3D camera datasets. The expected recognition of pears can be implemented as a fruit
picking mechanism with fewer injuries to the surface with the recent advancements of manipulators 
and
robots.

12.2 Materials and Methods

12.2.1 Field Data Collection

In this study, a 3D stereo camera named ZED (Stereolabs Inc. San Francisco, CA, USA) was used to 
collect

3018 (4-channel) original pictures from the T-PIRC (36°07′04″ N, 140°05′45″ E) on a sunny day. The 
video
shot                                                         with the ZED camera simulated the 
movement of the trajectory of the manipulator, and the observation


distance from the pear was less than 50 cm. The video was trimmed into a frame-by-frame binocular 
image
through                                                            the ZED camera protocol. The 
right side of the camera was showed the images in depth images, and
the left side was 4-channel RGBA images.

Considering the influences of different light intensities in the natural environment and the camera
parameters,                                                          in this research, 4 videos 
were taken at 9–10 am and 4 video were taken at 6–7 pm from
Tsukuba-Plant Innovation Research Center (T-PIRC). The videos were taken during pears were at the 
fruit
stage grown in the orchards covered with nets (Fig. 12.1a, b). The total number of original images 
used was
3018 in the training, validation, and testing process. Among these datasets, there were 1818 images 
used for
training, 900 images for validation, and 300 images for testing. As mentioned before, that we 
collected the
data from different times with different light intensities included high light and low light 
conditions (Table

12.1).

Fig. 12.1 Aerial view of orchards for data collection located at the Tsukuba-Plant Innovation 
Research Center (T-PIRC),
University of Tsukuba, Tsukuba, Ibaraki. (a) Satellite view of Tsukuba-Plant Innovation Research 
Center (T-PIRC); (b)
the view of pear orchard in T-PIRC

Table 12.1 Dataset collection times and light conditions in the complex orchard

Date     Time    Light condition

24 August 2021 9:00–10:00 High light

24 August 2021 18:00–19:00 Low light

12.2.2 Instance Segmentation

Image segmentation techniques consisted of object detection, semantic segmentation, and instance
segmentation.                                                    Object detection solved the 
problem of identifying the content and location of images.

Semantic segmentation was used to label each object with classes. However, instance segmentation 
was a

combination of object detection with boundaries and semantic segmentation with classes (Fig. 12.2). 
In the
case                                                             of instance segmentation, the 
object pear fruit was recognized as individual pears inside the same class
compared to semantic segmentation. Many instance segmentation methods were based on segmentation
proposals (He et al., 2017). Deep-Masks (Sa et al., 2016) proposes segmentation candidates followed 
by Fast
R-CNN for classification. These methods were very slow and inaccurate. Mask R-CNN performs parallel

prediction based on the masks and labels, making its instance segmentation method simpler and 
faster (He
et                                                            al., 2017).


Fig. 12.2  Different segmentation in pear detection using 3D camera datasets, (a) original image; 
(b) semantic
segmentation; (c) object detection; and (d) instance segmentation

12.2.3 Mask R-CNN

Segmentation algorithm was gradually developed. There were two different methods of segmentation
algorithm.                                                  One was single-stage (detection). A 
model that directly obtained the classes and boxes

information of the objects presented in the input image (YOLO and YOLACT), while the other was 
two-stage
(detection                                                             + segmentation). First it 
located the frame of the target object and then segmented the target

object within the frame (Faster R-CNN and Mask R-CNN). In the Mask R-CNN process, three main parts 
were
followed: first, the backbone network extracts feature maps from the input image; second, the 
feature map
outputs from the backbone network were sent to the region proposal network (RPN) (Ren et al., 2015) 
to

generate regions of interest (ROIs); third, the ROI maps were output from the RPN, mapped to the 
shared
feature                                                          maps to extract the corresponding 
target features, and then output to the FC and full convolutional
networks (FCN) for target classification and instance segmentation (Fig. 12.3). This process 
generated

classification scores, bounding boxes, and segmentation masks. With the evidence of the presented 
research,
Mask R-CNN was used to detect the fruit.


Fig. 12.3 Mask R-CNN structure for pear quantity in orchards from 3D camera datasets

The original images enter the backbone network for selection and screening to get the feature maps.

Then, the foreground and background are extracted in the RPN network, enter the ROI-Align network 
for
standardization, and finally enter the head network to generate classes, boxes, and masks for pear 
detection.

12.2.4 ZED AI Stereo Camera

This research used a stereo camera as the main camera for data collection. The stereo camera was an
integrated                                                      binocular camera that used advanced 
sensing technology based on a stereo vision to provide
video acquisition, depth information, real-time location information, and other technologies. It 
has been

applied to target reconstruction, position acquisition, and other fields (Tran et al., 2020). A 
stereo camera


was used to obtain the distance of the pear through its depth functions, such as a 3D point cloud 
map.

Therefore, the distance between the target fruit with the mask to the camera is measured and 
transmitted to
the upper computer. Then, to realize the simulated grasping of the robot, Mask-RCNN was used for 
apple
pickings and implemented in the intelligent platform.

12.2.5 Data Preparation

12.2.5.1 Deep Learning Environment

This experiment used a processor 11th Gen Intel(R) Core (TM) i7-11700F @2.50 GHz(16CPUs), ~2.5 GHz,
16,384 MB RAM, and Nvidia GeForce RTX 3060 GPU with Windows® 10 home edition™, CUDA 10.0, cuDNN
7.4, and Visual Studio™ 2019 as the training base. The environment configuration was created based 
on

Mask R-CNN environment under anaconda, where the TensorFlow version was used in TensorFlow-

gpu2.14.0, Keras 2.6.0, and Python 3.6.

12.2.5.2 Video to Image Conversion

The videos were taken with a stereo camera and images were converted to a specific format. Since 
the stereo
camera                                                            came with its own shooting 
software, ZED Explorer™, which could shoot videos in three modes

(ULTRA, PERFORMANCE, and QUALITY), the PERFORMANCE mode was chosen for this experiment,
shooting                                                           a number of videos in HD720 
stored in SVO format. The ZED protocol was used to trim the images
to PNG format, and the image resolution was 1280 × 720.

12.2.5.3 Image Annotation

LabelMe® was used as the image annotation tool for semantic segmentation written in JavaScript for 
online
labeling (Russell et al., 2008) The difference from LabelImg® was that the target was plotted in 
detail, and

then a target mask was generated in LabelMe. LabelMe labeled all targets under the software 
interface, and

different classes were named as different label tags and different entities of the same class were 
named at
once in order.

12.2.6 Data Splitting

The dataset consisted of 3018 images taken at different times of the day. The Mask R-CNN dataset was
divided into training, validation, and testing sets, with the ratio set at 6:3:1.

In earlier experiments, three sets of videos with 1080 P resolution and .avi format were taken with 
an
iPhone™ 11 mobile phone. We observed that the training set taken with the ZED camera made it 
difficult to
test the videos and images taken with the mobile phone. This was due to the different camera 
calibration
modules used on the stereo and the mobile phone camera as well as the different apertures and light

transmission of the cameras making accurate identification difficult. This was why all of the 
experiments
were                                                    conducted using stereo cameras to produce 
the dataset and test set. Second, as in the video taken by
the stereo camera, different colors of pears existed in different shadows, so the individual pears 
in the
dataset also showed three colors: bright yellow, yellow, and dark yellow. In this study, all colors 
of pears

were calibrated and placed in the training set and the validation set to achieve adaptation to each 
angle and
each                                                           color of pears.

Additionally, due to the homogenization of the original dataset, the shape of the pears and leaves 
tended
to                                                           be similar under the dark light 
condition. Therefore, we decided to perform data augmentation on this
dataset. Since the shape of the pear is similar to a sphere, and the shape of the leaf was 
irregular, we flipped
and rotated each image of the original dataset so that the pear still tended to be spherical at 
different angles,
but the leaves presented different shapes at different angles. The data set was expanded to 9054 
images
with the training set having 5054 images, the validation set having 2700, and the testing set 
having 900 at

the ratio of 6:3:1 by data augmentation. We also rotated each image of the original dataset by 30° 
and
flipped each image by 180° with the same method.

12.2.7 Training Process of Mask R-CNN

12.2.7.1 Feature Extraction (Backbone: ResNet101 + FPN)

A deep convolutional network referred to a network with different depths that could be constructed 
by
constructing different weights. This was widely used in image feature extraction. However, with 
further


deepening of the convolution network, the more convolution layers, the higher the corresponding 
training
error. For the original network, simply increasing the depth led to gradient dispersion or 
exploding

gradients. To address this issue, we represented this layer as an input-based learned residual 
function.
Experiments showed that residual networks were easier to optimize and improved accuracy by adding
considerable depth (He et al., 2016).

Residual networks (ResNet) were widely cited in the backbone networks of Faster R-CNN and Mask R-
CNN, with ResNet50 and ResNet101 being the most common for Mask R-CNN. The Mask R-CNN using

ResNet101 outperforms all previous basic variants of the state-of-the-art model (He et al., 2017), 
including
the                                                   single-model variant of G-RMI (Huang et al., 
2017) (Fig. 12.4).

Fig. 12.4 The inner structure of ResNet101 as an example of second layers (C2): (a) is conv block 
and (b) is identity
block. The images which were inputted into the ResNet have changed the channels. Conv block is the 
first stage of each
layer, and the identity blocks and conv blocks were combined to the ResNet

These figures showed the different residual modules in a stage. The basic structure of these two 
modules
met                                                         the standard residual structure. The 
difference between the convolutional block and identity block was
that the convolutional block had a 1 × 1 conv layer. The shortcut of the convolutional block needed 
to go

through a 1 × 1 conv for converting the number of channels. The identity block was directly 
connected to the
upper output level. Therefore, ResNet101 was chosen as the backbone for the Mask R-CNN in this 
research.

The feature pyramid network (FPN) (Lin et al., 2017) as an elaborate multiscale detection method, 
had a
structure consisting of three parts: bottom-up, top-down, and lateral connections. This structure 
allowed the
features of each layer to be fused so that they had both strong semantic and strong spatial 
information.

Feature extraction using the ResNet-FPN backbone for Mask R-CNN showed a great improvement in
accuracy                                                        and speed (He et al., 2017). The 
structure of Mask-RCNN feature extraction was based on ResNet
101 and FPN (Fig. 12.5).


Fig. 12.5 ResNet101 + FPN for pear quantity recognition

Top-down: no difference from the traditional feature extraction process, ResNet was used as the 
skeleton
network                                                            and then divided into five 
stages according to the size of the feature map. These were named Stage
1, Stage 2, Stage 3, Stage 4, and Stage 5. In the convolution process, Conv2, Conv3, Conv4, and 
Conv5 are
defined as C2, C3, C4, and C5. Next, the stage passes through the FPN on the right side from top to 
bottom
and from left to right. Sampling starts from the last layer and samples to the nearest upper layer. 
The results
of the previous layer were connected horizontally by a layer conv 1 × 1, which was used to reduce 
its

channels, and the results of all sampled layers were set to the same channels, fixed at 256. From 
there, it was
processed                                                          through a layer of conv 3 × 3 to 
eliminate the aliasing effect. P2, P3, P4, P5, and P6 from FPN were
used as RPN inputs, and P2, P3, P4, and P5 were used as subsequent Mask R-CNN inputs (Huang et al.,

2017).

12.2.7.2 Region Proposal Network (RPN)

RPN, as a fully convolutional network (FCN) (Girshick et al., 2015), was specifically targeted for 
the task of
generating detection suggestions and extracting candidate frames (Girshick et al., 2015). Based on 
P2, P3,
P4, P5, and P6 obtained in Sect. 12.2.7.1, a series of anchors were generated in the RPN. Taking 
the P6 layer


as an example, the feature map size of the P6 layer was (16, 16, and 256), and its step size 
relative to the
original map was 64 so that each pixel point on P6 was generated with 3 transformations of anchors 
with

aspect ratio {0.5, 1, 2}. There were a total of 1200 generated anchors (16 × 16 × 3 = 768), and by 
analogy, P2

(256 × 256 × 3 = 196,608), P3 (128 × 128 × 3 = 49,152), P4 (64 × 64 × 3 = 12,288), and P5

(32 × 32 × 3 = 3072); from P2 to P5, a total of 261,888 anchors were generated on the original 
image (Fig.
12.6).

Fig. 12.6 RPN in Mask R-CNN for extracting proposals of original pear images

The positive and negative classes for network training were established by the generated anchors and
256 were selected according to intersection-over-union (IoU) (Ren et al., 2015) for training the 
RPN, of
which,                                                         128 positive samples (foreground) 
and 128 negative samples (background) were guaranteed. This

step was performed to calibrate the anchor box, in addition to calculating the offset between the 
anchor box
and                                                            the ground truth (Fig. 12.7).

Fig. 12.7 Generation for IoU by comparing anchor boxes with ground truth boxes. If IoU > 0.7, then 
label = 1 positive; if
IoU < 0.3, then label = −1 negative; others, label = 0

The IoU represented the overlap of the two bounding boxes, where the ground truth and the offset of 
the
anchor box can be expressed as.

(12.1)

(12.2)


xa, ya represented the coordinate value of the center point of the anchor box; wa, ha represent the 
width and
height of the anchor box; x∗, y∗ represented the coordinate value of the center point of the ground 
truth; and
w∗, h∗ represented the coordinate value of the width and height of the ground truth.

Next, we entered the regression and classification of the RPN, which classified each layer of 
anchor into

foreground and background and the four displacement quantities of regression. For example, in the 
P6 layer,
the                                                            size of the feature map was 16 × 16, 
there were 16 × 16 × 3 anchors, and the probability of each anchor
as foreground and background was calculated separately. The array was (16 × 16 × 3, 2), and the 
regression
of offset was (16 × 16 × 3, 4). The same operation was performed from P2 to P6, and the 
classification of

(261,888 and 2) was obtained in total information and the regression information of (261,888 and 
4).

The scores (probabilities) corresponding to the 256 positive and negative samples were found from

(261,888 and 2); as a result, 256 positive and negative samples were obtained. The Softmax 
cross-entropy

loss values were calculated using the scores and the label values of the positive and negative 
samples, which
caused RPN to initially extract foreground anchors as candidate regions using anchors and the 
Softmax

function.

The offset corresponding to the index where the 128 positive samples were located from the (261,888
and                                                         4) regression array was found, and this 
offset was used with the offset calculated between the positive
samples and the real frame to calculate the loss value to regress the proposals from the positive 
samples.

12.2.7.3 ROIs and ROI-Align

In this research, the ROI parameter was set for taking a certain amount from 261,888 anchors as the 
ROI
during                                                         training; this parameter was set to 
2000. Therefore, 2000 anchors from 261,888 anchors were taken
as the ROI needed in the next stage.

Our method ranked the scores of the positive samples obtained in the previous stage of RPN from
highest to the lowest, removed the top 2000 anchors with the highest scores, and accumulated the 
more
accurate                                                     box coordinates by regression of the 
offset of RPN. Finally, a nonmaximal suppression (NMS)

(Bodla et al., 2017) was performed on these 2000 anchors to eliminate duplicate boxes. Finally, 2000
matching ROIs were selected.

Since NMS processing was performed on the ROIs after the proposal, some of the layers with less than
2000 ROIs had supplemental 0 processing, so the 2000 ROIs obtained needed to be eliminated. 
Eliminating
the ROIs filled with 0’s and eliminating all the boxes with multiple objects in the ground truth at 
the same

time, the IoU value of each ROI was calculated. Then, we calculated the IoU value of each ROI and 
ground

truth, obtained 400 ROIs with positive and negative samples of 1:3, and finally returned its 400 
samples, its
displacement offset, and 400 masks.

ROI-Align of the standardized ROIs was used to obtain the final required feature maps. ROI-Align 
was a
unique part of Mask R-CNN. Unlike ROI-Pooling in Faster R-CNN, ROI-Pooling was a standardized 
operation
used to extract a small feature map from each ROI, and this feature had a fixed spatial range. This 
paper used
7 × 7 feature maps as fixed-size feature maps. First, the ROI of the floating-point number was 
quantized into
a feature map of standard size, and the quantized ROI was quantized again to obtain an N × N 
integer feature
map. Furthermore, for an image whose original size was 1280 × 720, after 8 samplings and resizing, 
the size
of the obtained feature map was 160 × 160. Assuming that there was a 113 × 113 region proposal, the 
size of
the feature map was 14.125 × 14.125 (113/8). At this time, after the first quantization, the region 
proposal
size on the feature map was 14 × 14. Assuming that it eventually became a 7 × 7 fixed-size feature 
map, the
feature map needed to be divided into 49 regions, and the size of each region was 14/7 = 2. At this 
time, the
second quantization was performed, and the final small area size was 2 × 2. Finally, the maximum 
pixel
quality was selected in each small 3 × 3 area to form a 7 × 7 fixed-size feature map.

Although ROI-Pooling did not change the categories in the data in the two quantization while it

generated the mask, omitting the very small floating-point number also affected the area and size 
of the
mask. Mask R-CNN canceled the two in ROI-Pooling-quantization operations and preserved 
floating-point
numbers (He et al., 2017). For example, images were taken at a size of 1280 × 720. After 8 
samplings, the
size of the feature map (8 × 8) was obtained. Another 113 × 113 region proposal was also assumed to 
be
mapped to the feature map. The size then changed to 14.125 × 14.125. The operation at this time was
different from the above ROI-Pooling. The quantization operation was directly canceled, and the 
floating-
point number was reserved. Assuming that the final required transformation was a 7 × 7 feature map, 
49


small areas needed to be planned in the feature map with a feature map of 14.125 × 14.125. Since 
the size of
each small area was changed to 14.125/7 = 2.018, the final minimum area was 2.018 × 2.018. Assuming 
that
the number of sampling points was four, bilinear interpolation was used for calculation so that the 
pixel
values of the four points could be obtained. The quantization operation was eliminated, and the 
errors were
greatly reduced (Fig. 12.8).

Fig. 12.8 Bilinear interpolation in ROI-Align was used to obtain fixed feature maps for pear 
recognition. P represents
pixel coordinates that ROI-Align wanted to obtain after bilinear interpolation. Q11, Q12, Q22, and 
Q21 represent the
four coordinates of known pixel points around point P

The process of ROI-Align simply described and calculated the edge lengths of each ROI but does not
round them. Each ROI region was divided into K × K bins, and the size of each bin was not rounded. 
The

value of each bin was obtained by bilinear interpolation of the four values of the most adjacent 
feature map.
Max pooling was used to obtain a feature vector of fixed length. Mask R-CNN uses bilinear 
interpolation,
which is a useful operation that can be used to interpolate two-dimensional images to compare 
different
pixel sizes or image spacings, which be used to remove ROI-Align in Mask R-CNN. Thus, the pixel 
values of

four adjacent pixel points were obtained. For example, if the number of sampling points were 4, 
this could be
expressed as follows: for each small area, the average was divided into four points, the center 
point position
was taken for each part, and the pixel value of the center point position at this time was 
bilinear. The

interpolation method was used for calculation. Through this method, the pixel values of the four 
points were
obtained, thereby eliminating the need for two quantization operations and generating the 
corresponding
mask for pear recognition.

12.2.7.4 Mask RCNN for Classi𝑓ication and Regression

The ROIs obtained after entering ROI-Align needed to pass the head architecture to perform category 
of

classification, regression, and mask generation operations, which had two main branches. The upper 
branch
indicated category classification and regression, and the lower branch generated the mask for each 
pear in

each feature map.

After the ROI of the previous layer, a 7 × 7 × 256 feature map was generated, and another branch was
aligned to a 14 × 14 × 256 feature map (Fig. 12.9). Since the outputs of P2, P3, P4, P5, and P6 
were all 256,
the final channel was still 256 after ROI-Align.


Fig. 12.9 Flow diagram of feature maps to produce boxes, classes, and masks for each pear in each 
fixed-size feature
map after ROI-Align

The branch of left side in Mask R-CNN had the same principle of classifying targets and generating

frames with Faster R-CNN. The Faster R-CNN also calculated which category each proposal belongs to 
and
outputs the classification result through the fully connected layer. Additionally, the position 
offset of each
proposal was obtained by bounding box regression which was used to return a more accurate target

detection frame. The branch of right side was based on the Faster R-CNN, and the full convolutional 
layer
branch was added to obtain a more accurate mask. The difference between FCN and CNN is that the 
final
FCN was replaced by a convolutional layer. Unlike the classical CNN, which uses FCN after the 
convolution
layer to obtain a fixed-length feature vector for classification (fully connected layer + Softmax 
output), FCN
accepted                                                        an input image of arbitrary size 
and used deconvolution to sample the feature map of the last

convolution layer to restore it to the same size as the output image. The feature map of a fixed 
size of the ROI
region was generated by the ROI-Align operation. After 4 convolution operations, a 14 × 14 feature 
map was
generated. Then, a 28 × 28 feature map was generated by up-sampling. Finally, a 28 × 28 feature map 
with a
depth of 80 was generated by the deconvolution operation to obtain the exact mask.

12.2.7.5 Loss Function

The loss functions of the Mask R-CNN were divided into two main parts. The first part was the RPN 
loss
function, which was similar to the Faster R-CNN. The RPN loss function consisted of two parts: the

classification loss (L_CLS) and the bounding box regression loss (L_BOX).

The general formula was as follows (Girshick et al., 2015):

(12.3)

(12.4)

(12.5)


(12.6)

Ncls: Since the anchor generated in the RPN stage was only used to classify foreground and 
background
and was set to 256, the value of Ncls is 256.

pi was the probability of predicting the target,  was the group truth (GT) label.

(12.7)

denotes two classes: the target and the nontarget logarithmic loss, in which

(12.8)

(12.9)

Nreg was the size of the feature maps, and   was used as the normalized weight to balance the
classification loss and regression loss, which was taken as  in the RPN training phase,

ti = {tx, ty, tw, th} was a vector that represents the offset used for prediction in the RPN 
training phase,
was the actual offset of the group truth corresponding to the positive anchors.


R was the smoothL1function

(12.10)


LMASK was the loss function resulting from adding the mask branch to the Mas R-CNN and had the
functional expression

(12.11)

(12.12)

In this research, we conducted a discussion of the pseudo-code of Mask R-CNN for different datasets
included                                                    training set (TRD), validation set 
(VAD), and testing set (TSD). We gave a brief logical explanation
in the tabular format of the pseudocodes of the modified Mask R-CNN (Table 12.2).

Table 12.2 Pseudocodes in pear recognition using Mask R-CNN, Faster R-CNN, and YOLACT in training 
and testing
phases. Algorithm1 Training phase using Mask R-CNN; algorithm2 Testing phase using Mask R-CNN; 
algorithm3
Training phase using Faster R-CNN; algorithm4 Testing phase using Faster R-CNN; algorithm5 Training 
phase using
YOLACT; algorithm6 Testing phase using YOLACT

Algorithm1 Training Phase using Mask R-CNN

1.Inputs:

2. Dataset_train:          ,

3. Datset_val:           ,where M, N are the number of images.

4.  if mode = “training”

5.   Get object index in Imagei, Imagej

6.   Extraction from ResNet101 to FPN

7.   Anchor generation from P2, P3, P4, P5, P6

8.   BG and FG generation from RPN via (Eqs. 12.1 and 12.2)

9.   Calculated the LRPN via (Eqs. 12.4–12.9)


10.   ROIs Generation from ROI − Align

11.   Masks, boxes, classes Generation from the Head

12.   Calculate the loss of the head layer LMASK via (Eq. 12.12)

13.   Save_logs_weights(mask _ rcnn _ shapes. h5)
14.Return:

15.  logs _ weights, LRPN, LMASK, L
Algorithm2 Testing Phase using Mask R-CNN
1.Inputs:

2. Dataset_Test:          , where M is the number of images.

3. GPU_COUNT = 1

4. IMAGES_PER_GPU = 1

5.  if mode =” inference”

6.   Model.load_weights(mask _ rcnn _ shapes. h5)

7.   For i in range (Imagei):

8.    Input Anchors

9.    Generated rpn _ ROIs

10.    targer _ ROIs = rpn _ ROIs

11.    Generated target _ class _ ids, target _ bbox, target _ mask

12.    Created masks for detections
13.Return:

14.  Imagei , masks, class _ id, class _ name, scores

15. Visualize.display_instances Imagei

Algorithm3 Training Phase using Faster R-CNN

1. Inputs:

2. Dataset_train:          ,

3. Datset_val:           , where M, N is the number of images.

4.  if mode = “training”

5.   Get object index in Imagei

6.   Extraction from VGG16 (Visual Geometry Group Network)

7.   Region proposals generation from RPN

8.   ROIs generation from ROI − Pooling

9.   Classification from the Head

10.    Calculated Loss

11.    Save_logs_weights
12.Return:

13.  logs _ weights, LRPN

Algorithm4 Testing Phase using Faster R-CNN

1.Inputs:

2. Dataset_Test:          , where M is the number of images.

3.  if mode =” inference”

4.   Model.load_weights

5.   For i in range (Imagei) :

6.    Input Anchors

7.    Generated rpn _ ROIs

8.    targer _ ROIs = rpn _ ROIs

9.    Generated target _ class _ ids, target _ bbox


10. Return:

11.  Imagei, target _ class _ ids, target _ bbox

12. Visualize.display_instances Imagei
Algorithm5 Training Phase using YOLACT
1.Inputs:

2. Dataset_train:          ,

3. Datset_val:           ,where M, N are the number of images.

4.  if mode = “training”

5.   Get object index in Imagei, Imagej

6.   Extraction from ResNet101 to FPN

7.   Anchor generation from P3, P4, P5, P6, P7

8.   138×138×k Masks generation form Protonet

9.    Anchors generation in Feature maps from P3, P4, P5, P6, P7 in Prediction Head

10.   Mask and B-box coefficients generation based on anchors

11.   Anchors filtration from Fast NMS

12.   Matrix multiplication of Mask coefficient and prototype in Crop & Threshold

12.   Calculate the loss of LRPN, LMASK, L

13.   save_loss: LRPN, LMASK, Lnet

13.   save_logs_weights(yolac _ customer _ 110 _ 400000. pth

Algorithm6 Testing Phase using YOLACT

1.Inputs:

2. Dataset_Test:          , where M is the number of images.


3.  if

name

== '

main ':

4.   set_cfg(args.config)

5.    if args.images is None

6.     dataset = COCODetection(cfg.dataset.valid_images, cfg.dataset.valid_info,

7.    transform=BaseTransform(), has_gt=cfg.dataset.has_gt)

8.    else:

9.     dataset = None

10.   net = Yolact()

11.   net.load_weights(args.trained_model)

12.   net.eval ()

13.    evaluate (net, dataset,train_mode=False)

14.   visualize.display_instances Imagei

12.2.7.6 Model Metrics Function

The results of the model prediction values were classified into four categories: true positive 
(TP), indicating
a                                                       positive sample detected correctly; false 
negative (FN), indicating a negative sample predicted incorrectly;
true negative (TN), a negative sample predicted correctly; and false positive (FP), a positive 
sample

predicted incorrectly.

In this thesis, only pears needed to be detected, so pears were used as the only category. The task 
of
Mask R-CNN was to detect the number of pears present in the pictures. Therefore, TP indicated the 
result
that                                                         Mask R-CNN detected pears as pears in 
each image of the test set in the testing phase. FN pears were

not identified. There was a missed identification: TN indicated that the part that was not 
identified as a pear,
and FP indicated that the background or the leaves were identified as a pear (Figs. 12.7 and 
12.10).

(12.13)


Fig. 12.10  Pear prediction for determining FP, TN, TP, and FN using Mask R-CNN, (a) original 
image; (b) cv_mask input
image before testing and (c) mask image after testing. Precision overreflected the proportion of 
correct classification in
the number of positive samples classified by the model. Its expression is

Recall was the ratio of the number of correct samples to the number of positive samples, and its
expression is

(12.14)

Since there was only one category of fruit in this experiment, AP = mAP. Its value was between [0, 
1], and
the                                                           closer to 1, the better the model 
recognition effect.

12.3 Results

12.3.1 Training Details

In this research, 9054 four-channel RGBA images (3018 images were original images and 6036 images 
were
augmented images) in PNG format were used, and all images were taken by the same 3D stereo camera. 
The
size of the validation set was adjusted by the loss function of the validation set. Initially, the 
training,
validation, and testing sets were divided into a ratio of 6:3:1, that was, 5054 images for the 
training set,

2700 images for the validation set, and 900 images for the test set. The epoch was set to 80 with 
500 steps
in                                                        each epoch. During the experiment, since 
the Mask-RCNN could only use three-channel RGB images for

the predicted images, the channels of the test set of 900 RBGA images were modified to RGB after 
the error
was found. The following figures showed the loss diagram of each partial function for this study 
(Fig.

12.11a–f).


Fig. 12.11 Mask R-CNN loss results from training losses and validation losses, (a) Total loss; (b) 
Mask R-CNN head
bounding box loss; (c) Mask R-CNN head class loss; (d) Mask R-CNN mask loss; (e) RPN bounding box 
loss; and (f) RPN
class loss

In this research, comparison experiments were conducted on the same datasets at different learning
rates. From the training results, when the learning rate was set to 0.001, the training loss 
dropped to 0.3099
and                                                          the validation set loss dropped to 
0.4637. Additionally, the Mask R-CNN head bounding box loss

dropped to 0.0434 in the training set and the validation loss dropped to 0.0601 and the Mask R-CNN 
head


class loss dropped to 0.0656 in the training set and the validation loss dropped to 0.1119; the 
Mask R-CNN
mask                                                           loss dropped to 0.1260 in the 
training set and the validation loss dropped to 0.1310; the RPN
bounding box loss dropped to 0.0677 in the training set and the validation loss was 0.1077; the RPN 
class
loss in the training set was 0.0071 and the validation loss was 0.0432 (Fig. 12.11a–f).

Figure 12.11a indicates the overall loss; by 80 epochs, each epoch was trained with 500 steps, which
indicates                                                           that the model was good for 
this training. The Mask R-CNN bounding box loss denoted the loss of
Mask R-CNN bounding box refinement, Mask R-CNN class loss denoted the head layer loss of classifier 
of
Mask R-CNN, Mask R-CNN mask loss denoted the head layer mask binary cross-entropy loss of Mask, the

RPN bounding box loss denoted the RPN bounding box loss, and the RPN class loss denoted anchor 
classifier
loss.

Classification loss indicated how close the training model was to predicting the correct class. 
Mask R-
CNN class loss was used as the head layer, and all objects were covered, while RPN class loss only 
covered
the foreground and background of images. The border loss, on the other hand, responded to the 
distance
between the real boxes and the predicted boxes. The Mask R-CNN mask loss responds to how close the

model was to the predicted correct class mask. The sum of the above five losses constituted the 
overall loss.

12.3.2 Evaluation of Model Metrics

A series of weight files were obtained from the Mask R-CNN training and were used to evaluate the 
Mask R-
CNN training model. The weight files left from the last training in the training process were 
selected to
evaluate the test set.

The Precision (P), Recall (R), Average Precision (AP), and mean Average Precision (mAP) were used 
as

the main parameters to evaluate the model in this research. We tested the different performances of 
the test
set                                                           using the weights obtained from the 
training set after 80 epochs at different learning rates and the

response plots of the Precision-Recall (PR) curves at a learning rate of 0.001. We also tested the 
same

operation on the validation set with the weight trained by training sets, with overall mAP (IoU = 
0.5). In
addition, we tested different parts of the validation set, which was divided into three sections. 
One was

original image datasets in the validation set, and another two were datasets after doing 
augmentation. We
found that the results were nearly similar using the same weight tested in three sets: the original 
images

(89.76%), rotation augmentation (84.47%), and flipped augmentation images (89.67%). However, while
using                                                         all the datasets, including originals 
and two other augmented imageries in the validation process, the
accuracy was increased (92.02%).

Table 12.3 shows the comparison of mAPs in Mask R-CNN and Faster R-CNN. The Precision-recall curve
of Faster R-CNN and Mask R-CNN from the testing set at different learning rates after 80 epochs 
(Fig. 12.12).

Table 12.3 mAP (IoU = 50%) results from 3D camera datasets using Mask R-CNN, Faster R-CNN, and 
YOLACT in the
testing set and validation set

Model   Validation set (%) Testing set (%)

Faster R-CNN 87.90      87.52

YOLACT   87.07       97.89

Mask R-CNN 95.22      99.45


Fig. 12.12 (a) Precision-recall curve of Faster R-CNN at learning rate = 0.001 in the testing set 
and (b) precision-recall
curve of Mask R-CNN at learning rate = 0.001 in the testing set

12.3.3 Evaluation of Model Effectiveness

In this study, by creating a dataset and Mask R-CNN model using a 3D stereo camera, we found the 
best
weights by comparing the fit of Mask R-CNN, Faster R-CNN and YOLACT with the same learning rate at 
lr =

0.001. By testing 900 images of the test set taken at different times, we obtained the following 
results by

comparing the different effects of aggregating pears and separating pears under different 
illumination. Due
to                                                            the problem of the light, branch, and 
leaf shading in the orchard, this research compared the test results
of Mask R-CNN, Faster R-CNN, and YOLACT under the light intensity from multiple pears in gathering 
and
individual situations (Figs. 12.13 and 12.14).



Fig. 12.13  Results of different deep learning algorithms in different situations. Recognition of 
(a–d) separated pears in
low light; (e–m) aggregated pears in low light; (i–l) separated pears in strong light, and (m–p) 
aggregated pears in
strong light. (a, e, i, m) Original images; (b, f, j, n) testing images in Mask R-CNN; and (c, j, 
k, o) testing images in Faster
R-CNN; (d, h, l, p) testing images in YOLACT


Fig. 12.14 Results of different deep learning algorithms. Recognition of (a–d) separated pear in 
low light; (e–h)
aggregated pears in low light; (i–l) separated pears in strong light, and (m–p) aggregated pears in 
strong light (a, e, i,
m) original images; (b, f, j, n) testing images in Mask R-CNN; and (c, g, k, o) testing images in 
Faster R-CNN; (d, h, l, p)
testing images in YOLACT

The results showed that in the case of independent pear detection, the difference in Mask R-CNN, 
Faster
R-CNN, and YOLACT was that Mask R-CNN and YOLACT generated both masks and bounding boxes, while
Faster R-CNN detected pear-only generated bounding boxes. For YOLACT, the detection in independent 
pear
showed the similar results while the performance of masks that generated by YOLACT were lower than

Mask R-CNN. The detection accuracy of Mask R-CNN was significantly higher than that of Faster R-CNN 
and
YOLACT                                                          under dark light conditions, and 
the accuracy of the bounding box of Mask R-CNN was higher than
that of Faster R-CNN when pears were aggregated, or when the detection target was incomplete pears. 
And
the mask generation of Mask R-CNN was also higher than that of the same instance segmentation 
algorithm
of YOLACT. Under bright light conditions, there was only a slight difference between Mask R-CNN and 
Faster
R-CNN for the accuracy of independent pears. However, in the case of aggregated pears, Mask R-CNN 
had a
higher correct recognition rate than Faster R-CNN. However, the accuracy of YOLACT under strong 
light

conditions, whether in the case of aggregated pears or independent pears, was considerably lower 
than that
of                                                           Mask R-CNN.

We also tested the comparison of the recognition of pears in different situations for both after 
image

rotation. When the pears were separated, the accuracy of the two only shows a small difference in 
the size of
the borders. However, when the pears were aggregated, Faster R-CNN failed to recognize individual 
pears;

Mask R-CNN had a higher recognition rate than Faster R-CNN in this case. Since the YOLACT algorithm

generated Anchors based on the color of background and pears, YOLACT showed inaccurate recognition 
of
pears in the recognition of rotated images. However, for the case of images with one pear present, 
the
performance was not much different in Mask R-CNN, Faster R-CNN, and YOLACT.

12.4 Discussion


Machine vision technology has become very popular due to the robust identification of objects and

classification in industrial and agricultural technological applications. This approach can be 
implemented to
future fruit picking robots or mechanical devices as machines replace human labor. Thus, the cost of
population labor will be significantly reduced; in terms of detection, with the development of 
vision

technology, the detection accuracy will also improve. In our study, we compared this technology 
with other
deep                                                         learning models. The average precision 
of the YOLOv4 model for pear recognition in complex orchards
was 93.76% and that of YOLOv4-tiny for pear recognition was 94.09% (Parico & Ahamed, 2021). 
Moreover,
by comparing the datasets using Faster R-CNN between apples, mangoes, and oranges, the mAP of apples
was 86.87%, mangoes was 89.36%, and oranges was 87.39 (Wan & Goudos, 2020). The mAPs of this

research were decreased when the camera field of view included fruit covered with leaves for the

recognition of fruit with the Faster R-CNN algorithm. Even by labeling the fruit with different 
shading
objects                                                         as different classes, mAPs for 
different classes did not significantly improve. The mAPs of leaf-

occluded fruit, branch-occluded fruit, non-occluded fruit, and fruit-occluded fruit were 89.90%, 
85.80%,

90.90%, and 84.80%, respectively (Gao et al., 2020). By comparing the same dataset, which was taken 
by the
same stereo camera, we knew that the mAPs of Faster R-CNN reached 87.52% on the testing set and 
87.90%
on the validation set; the mAPs of YOLACT reached 97.89% on the testing set and 87.07% on 
validation set.

We also found that the performance of Faster-RCNN became less accurate when testing aggregated pears
compared                                                          with Mask R-CNN. The performance 
of YOLACT also became less accurate when the strong light
condition whether in the case of individual pears or aggregated pears in orchard.

Therefore, although Faster R-CNN achieved good results in detection, distinguishing types of 
objects and
individuals, the mAPs of Faster R-CNN, in the case of identifying one type of fruit, hardly improved
dramatically, even by data augmentation. And although YOLACT was the same instance segmentation
algorithm as Mask R-CNN, was less accurate than Mask R-CNN in various situations (strong and low 
light).
Due to the complex orchard environment, for example, the color of pears changed when the light 
intensity
was different; it was difficult to detect individual pears when pears and leaves overlapped due to 
many
branches; or when multiple pears were gathered. The accuracy of YOLACT was greatly reduced under 
the

condition that the color distinction was not obvious. And Faster R-CNN had difficulty in improving 
the
detection accuracy to a higher level and was prone to inaccurate detection results when detecting
aggregated pears, Therefore, Mask R-CNN solves this problem perfectly, Mask R-CNN used two-stage

instance segmentation technology and had advanced improvements in detecting aggregated pears and 
their
accuracy. In this research, by using Mask R-CNN for the 3D stereo dataset, mAP (lr = 0.001) was 
99.45% in

the testing set and mAP(lr = 0.001) was 95.22%, which was much higher than that of Faster R-CNN. 
Due to

this series of factors, Mask R-CNN has made great progress in detection. The mask generated by the 
Mask R-
CNN network distinguished individual pears well when there were pear clusters in the environment.

We chose to use a 3D stereo camera for data acquisition. Traditional monocular cameras obtained 
better
resolution for images; however, they had limitations in extended measurement. Although the 
principle of the
monocular                                                         camera measurement method was 
simple, its accuracy was much lower than that of the 3D

stereo camera. The ZED camera was different from ordinary traditional cameras; it obtained depth

information by generating point clouds to calculate the actual distance between the camera and the 
pear.
Using the ZED camera with Mask R-CNN combined instance segmentation and depth ranging to identify
each of individual pears in complex orchards and calculate their actual distance.

We compared Faster R-CNN, who belonged to two stage (detection + segmentation) algorithm with Mask
R-CNN. Since Faster R-CNN did not generate masks in prediction, it had an advantage in recognition 
speed as
a traditional visual recognition model, while Mask R-CNN had an advantage in accuracy. We also 
compared
YOLACT with Mask R-CNN, which was different from Faster R-CNN, it belonged to one-stage (detection)
algorithm, so it was much faster than the previous two methods in terms of processing speed, and it 
was an
instance segmentation algorithm, so it also generated more accurate masks in prediction, but since 
YOLACT
was the real-time processing, it is much better in terms of accuracy.

However, since it is real-time processing, it was much less accurate than Mask R-CNN. Furthermore, 
Mask
R-CNN provided an increase in accuracy based on by adding a new mask branch. However, the 
disadvantage
was also obvious: its detection speed was only 5 fps and there was a delay with the agricultural 
picking

robots running at high speed. However, in slow picking, its effect was obviously remarkable at the

development stages with high recognition accuracy. Since the ZED camera’s PERFORMANCE format was
used, the resolution of the pictures it took was reduced compared to that of a regular camera. 
Therefore,


while detecting, the dark leaves of shadows were detected as dark pears due to the influence of 
light. In this
respect, the dataset accuracy needs to be improved.

However, in this study, the distance measuring module was not added, and only the ZED camera was
used to make RGBA datasets. The ZED camera measured the distance through the depth point cloud. In

future research, adding the comparison of the ranging module can further contribute to the 
development of
agricultural robots for complex orchard work such as robotic picking machines using an end-effector 
or
manipulator.

12.5 Conclusion

In this research, we developed a method for agricultural picking robots by using Mask R-CNN in an 
orchard
from                                                          3D stereo camera datasets. For the 
recognition of pears, the Mask R-CNN had the mAPs of 95.22% for
validation set and 99.45% was observed for the testing set. On the other hand, mAPs were observed 
87.9%
in the validation set and 87.52% in the testing set using Faster R-CNN. And mAPs were observed 
87.07% in
the validation set and 97.89% in the testing set. Furthermore, the 3D stereo camera was used with 
the Mask
R-CNN dataset of pears in complex orchards for two different types of images: original RGBA and 
depth.

Unlike the images taken by a conventional camera, the images taken by the 3D stereo camera could be 
used
in                                                          the development of adding a distance 
measurement module and training a set of depth maps as a dataset
in future work. Since we obtained the mask information of the identified pear, instead of obtaining 
the

coordinates of the bounding boxes, so that the center point of the pears was calculated more 
accurately by
the                                                           ZED camera, the accuracy of the 
coordinates of the center point obtained by masks was higher than the
method of the center point obtained by the bounding boxes. This was because the positioning of the
bounding boxes under different conditions showed some deviations. Therefore, we obtained high

recognition accuracy on videos captured with the ZED camera, which was a 3D stereo camera, and 
organized
them                                                        into applicable datasets using an 
advanced target detection model based on the Mask R-CNN with

TensorFlow, including the Keras library. We used the ResNet101 and FPN as the backbone layer; And 
FCN
was                                                         chosen as the head layer in Mask R-CNN 
to achieve higher accuracy in detection. The mAP of the dataset
taken by the ZED stereo camera with an image size of 1280 × 720 using the Mask R-CNN at a learning 
rate of

0.001 reached 0.3099 using the training weight, and the mAP of the validation set reached 0.4637 at 
a

learning rate of 0.001. We also verified the test speed, although we found that YOLACT tested at 
0.1132 s per
image taken by ZED camera and 1.229 s on Mask R-CNN, the average picking speed of some current 
picking
robots was still around 6.000 s. Therefore the detection speed of Mask R-CNN was seen as 
exploitable on

low-speed fruit picking mechanisms, but was deficient on picking robots operating at high speeds.

Therefore, we provided another method to improve efficiency in agricultural production, thus 
solving the
difficulty                                                             of previous vision models to 
recognize fruits because of their overlapping. Further research will be
conducted to implement this vision recognition method for the development of agricultural robots in
picking fruits using an end-effector or a manipulator.

Acknowledgments

Thanks to Open Access Publishers Sensors from MDPI to have their policy to support the authors for 
reusing
of                                                          the published article. In this regard, 
we would like to extend our gratitude to Sensors Journal to publish

this article (Siyu Pan and Tofael Ahamed. Pear Recognition in an Orchard from 3D Stereo Camera 
Datasets to
Develop a Fruit Picking Mechanism Using Mask R-CNN, Sensors 2022, 22(11), 4187; https://doi.org/10.

3390/s22114187). Some modifications have been conducted in this book chapter to add new analysis for
comparison of different deep learning models. This study was supported by grants from the Japanese

Society of Promotion Science JSPS Kiban C (Grant Number 21 K05844). The authors would like to thank 
the
Tsukuba Plant Innovation Research Center (T-PIRC), University of Tsukuba, for providing facilities 
for

conducting this research in its orchards.

Conflicts of Interest The authors declare no conflicts of interest.

References

Barua, S. (2020). Understanding coronanomics: The economic implications of the coronavirus 
(COVID-19) pandemic. Retrieved


Bechar, A., & Vigneault, C. (2016). Agricultural robots for field operations: Concepts and 
components. Biosystems Engineer

[Crossref]

Bodla, N., Singh, B., Chellappa, R., & Davis, L. S. (2017). Soft-NMS—Improving object detection 
with one line of code. In Pr

5561–5569).

Bolya, D., Zhou, C., Xiao, F., & Lee, Y. J. (2019). Yolact: Real-time instance segmentation. In 
Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Inte

Boniecki, P., & Piekarska-Boniecka, H. (2004). The SOFM type neural networks in the process of 
identification of selected

Engineering, 49(4), 5–9.

Boniecki, P., Koszela, K., & Przybylak, A. (2010). Classification of selected apples varieties and 
dried carrots using neural n

Engineering, 55(1), 11–15.

Cai, Z., & Vasconcelos, N. (2019). Cascade R-CNN: High quality object detection and instance 
segmentation. IEEE Transact

[Crossref]

Dorrer, M. G., & Tolmacheva, A. E. (2020). Comparison of the YOLOv3 and mask R-CNN architectures’ 
efficiency in the sma

1679(4), 042022.

Ertam, F., & Aydın, G. (2017). Data classification with deep learning using Tensorflow. In 2017 
International Conference on

Gao, F., Fu, L., Zhang, X., Majeed, Y., Li, R., Karkee, M., & Zhang, Q. (2020). Multi-class 
fruit-on-plant detection for apple in

176, 105634.

[Crossref]

Girshick, R. (2015). Fast r-cnn. In Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference on Computer 
Vision (pp. 1440–1448).
Girshick, R., Donahue, J., Darrell, T., & Malik, J. (2015). Region-based convolutional networks for 
accurate object detection

Intelligence, 38(1), 142–158.

[Crossref]

Hannan, M. W., & Burks, T. F. (2004). Current developments in automated citrus harvesting. In 2004 
ASAE Annual Meeting (
He, K., Zhang, X., Ren, S., & Sun, J. (2016). Deep residual learning for image recognition. In 
Proceedings of the IEEE Conferen
He, K., Gkioxari, G., Dollár, P., & Girshick, R. (2017). Mask R-CNN. In Proceedings of the IEEE 
International Conference on Com

Huang, J., Rathod, V., Sun, C., Zhu, M., Korattikara, A., Fathi, A., Fischer, I., Wojna, Z., Song, 
Y., Guadarrama, S. & Murphy, K. (
detectors. In Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (pp. 
7310–7311).

Jia, W., Tian, Y., Luo, R., Zhang, Z., Lian, J., & Zheng, Y. (2020). Detection and segmentation of 
overlapped fruits based on o

and Electronics in Agriculture, 172, 105380.
[Crossref]

Jiang, A., Noguchi, R., & Ahamed, T. (2022). Tree trunk recognition in orchard autonomous 
operations under different ligh
2065.

[Crossref][PubMed][PubMedCentral]

Kirkland, E. J. (2010). Bilinear interpolation. In Advanced computing in electron microscopy (pp. 
261–263). Springer.
Krizhevsky, A., Sutskever, I., & Hinton, G. E. (2012). Imagenet classification with deep 
convolutional neural networks. Adva

LeCun, Y., Bengio, Y., & Hinton, G. (2015). Deep learning. Nature, 521(7553), 436–444.

[Crossref][PubMed]

Lin, T. Y., Goyal, P., Girshick, R., He, K., & Dollár, P. (2017). Focal loss for dense object 
detection. In Proceedings of the IEEE I

Ortiz, L. E., Cabrera, E. V., & Gonçalves, L. M. (2018). Depth data error modeling of the ZED 3D 
vision sensor from stereola
1–15.

[Crossref]

Parico, A. I. B., & Ahamed, T. (2021). Real time pear fruit detection and counting using YOLOv4 
models and deep SORT. Se

[Crossref][PubMed][PubMedCentral]


Redmon, J., Divvala, S., Girshick, R., & Farhadi, A. (2016). You only look once: Unified, real-time 
object detection. In Procee

(pp. 779–788).

Ren, S., He, K., Girshick, R., & Sun, J. (2015). Faster R-CNN: Towards real-time object detection 
with region proposal netwo

Russell, B. C., Torralba, A., Murphy, K. P., & Freeman, W. T. (2008). LabelMe: A database and 
web-based tool for image ann
[Crossref]

Sa, I., Ge, Z., Dayoub, F., Upcroft, B., Perez, T., & McCool, C. (2016). Deepfruits: A fruit 
detection system using deep neural n
[Crossref][PubMed][PubMedCentral]

Saito, T. (2016). Advances in Japanese pear breeding in Japan. Breeding Science, 66(1), 46–59.
[Crossref][PubMed][PubMedCentral]

Schrder, C. (2014). Employment in European Agriculture: Labour costs, flexibility and contractual 
aspects. Retrieved from
agricultura.gencat.cat/web/.content/de_departament/de02_estadistiques_observatoris/27_butlletins/02_
butlletins_nd/
UE-2014.pdf

Sobol, Z., Jakubowski, T., & Nawara, P. (2020). Application of the CIE L* a* b* method for the 
evaluation of the color of frie

Sustainability, 12(8), 3487.
[Crossref]

Tran, T. M., Ta, K. D., Hoang, M., Nguyen, T. V., Nguyen, N. D., & Pham, G. N. (2020). A study on 
determination of simple obj
segmentation images. International Journal, 8(5), 1990.

Wan, S., & Goudos, S. (2020). Faster R-CNN for multi-class fruit detection using a robotic vision 
system. Computer Network

[Crossref]

Wei, X., Jia, K., Lan, J., Li, Y., Zeng, Y., & Wang, C. (2014). Automatic method of fruit object 
extraction under complex agricu
5684–5689.

[Crossref]

Yu, Y., Zhang, K., Yang, L., & Zhang, D. (2019). Fruit detection for strawberry harvesting robot in 
non-structural environme
104846.

[Crossref]


© The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd. 2023

T. Ahamed (ed.), IoT and AI in Agriculture

https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-19-8113-5_13

13. Thermal Imaging and Deep Learning
Object                            Detection Algorithms for Early

Embryo Detection: A Methodology

Development Addressed to Quail Precision
Hatching

Victor Massaki Nakaguchi¹ and Tofael Ahamed²

(1) Graduate School of Science and Technology, University of Tsukuba,

Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan

(2) Faculty of Life & Environmental Sciences, University of Tsukuba,
Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan

Tofael Ahamed

Email: tofael.ahamed.gp@u.tsukuba.ac.jp

Abstract

Poultry production utilized many available technologies in terms of
farm-industry automation and sanitary control. However, there is a lack
of robust techniques and affordable equipment for avian embryo

detection and sexual segregation at the early stages. In this work, we
aimed to evaluate the potential use of thermal microcameras for
detecting embryos in quail eggs via thermal images during the first

168 h (7 days) of incubation. We propose a methodology to collect data
during incubation period. Additionally, to support the visual analysis,
YOLO deep learning object detection algorithms were applied to detect
unfertilized eggs; the results showed its potential to distinguish

fertilized eggs from unfertilized eggs during the incubation period after
filtering radiometric images. We compared YOLOv4, YOLOv5, and SSD-


MobileNet V2 trained models. The mAP@0.50 of the YOLOv4, YOLOv5,
and                                        SSD-MobileNet V2 was 98.62%, 99.5%, and 91.8%, 
respectively. We
also compared three testing datasets for different intervals of rotation

of eggs, as our hypothesis was that fewer turning periods could
improve                                             the visualization of fertilized eggs features, 
and applied three
treatments: 1.5, 6, and 12 h. The results showed that turning eggs in
different periods did not exhibit a linear relation, as the F1 Score for
YOLOv4 of detection for the 12 h period was 0.569, that for the 6 h
period was 0.404 and that for the 1.5 h period was 0.384. YOLOv5 F1
Scores for 12, 6, and 1.5 h was 1, 0.545, and 0.386, respectively. SSD-

MobileNet V2 performed F1 score of 0.60 for 12 h, 0.22 for 6 h, and 0
for 1.5 h turning periods.

Keywords Quail eggs – Thermal imaging – Precision livestock farming
–                                             Embryo detection – YOLO – Deep learning

13.1 Introduction

Precision approaches to improve yield are currently based on
sophisticated                                            support decision systems that include 
several types of
sensors, powerful processing units for multidimensional data analysis,
and machinery automation. For animal production, certain authors

considered that combining precision yield techniques with intensive
farming systems constitutes the best way to enhance productivity and
sustainability                                         (Wathes et al., 2008; Lovarelli et al., 
2020). Therefore, the
best practices to save natural resources include the mitigation of losses
and the systematic use of energy inside the bioproduction ecosystem.

On breeding farms, the critical process of genetic improvement,
incubation,                                               and hatching is processed; this type of 
farm is responsible
for providing specialized strains to other farms (meat and egg

production) and even for supplying the pharmaceutical industry during
vaccine research and manufacturing (Yu et al., 2019). Historically, the
insufficiency of efficient, affordable, and robust technologies has driven
these farms toward low-precision hatching and culling of undesirable
strains. In conventional hatching, there is a lack of rapid, high

confidence methods to identify unfertilized eggs and dead embryos in


early stages. Due to this low-precision hatching, hidden costs are
associated                                                with a waste of energy and physical space 
during incubation
periods (Dong et al., 2019). For culling undesirable genes, there is also a
deficiency of real-time methods and industrial equipment for sex

segregation at the embryo level.

The most common technique for embryo detection is still candling,
which consists of using a light source against the eggshell to view the

content inside the eggs; nevertheless, it represents an inefficient, labor-
consuming, and subjective technique (Liu & Ngadi, 2013). Moreover,

candling is not applied to quail eggs because their small size and
different eggshell colors render its utilization difficult. Several

nondestructive methods to assess chicken egg content in early stages
have                                             been reported, including visible light 
transmission change

detection (Bamelis et al., 2002), acoustic resonance (Coucke et al.,

1997), near-infrared (NIR) hyperspectral imaging (Zhang et al., 2014),
spectroscopy methods using visible (VIS)/NIR (Qin et al., 2017;
Khaliduzzaman et al., 2021), optical sensing using

PhotoPlethysmoGraphy (PPG), and deep learning classification (Yu et
al., 2019).

Quail farms are well distributed worldwide as chicken farms,
although                                              the largest producers of eggs are 
concentrated in East Asia
and Brazil (Bertechini, 2012). The consumption of this product

represents approximately 10% of all eggs that are globally consumed
(Lukanov, 2019). Furthermore, the production of quail for meat and
eggs has been increasing as the global demand for food continues to
grow. In developing countries, quail poultry represents a viable

alternative to supply animal protein, especially because of the reduced
size                                                 of birds, its high nutritional value and its 
resilient avian for raising
in “backyard” systems (Shanawany, 1994). However, as quail farms have
not yet been industrially established in many countries, breeding

programs are not easily identified; therefore, farmers are responsible
for                                          breeding their own flocks, which is an arduous task 
that can lead to
genetic depression of quail flocks caused by consanguinity, resulting in
low fertility, low productivity of eggs, and a high rate of mortality

(Martins, 2002). Another recurrent problem associated with quail egg
production is the low hatchability rate; on average, 40% of all


incubated eggs do not hatch. Several factors can contribute to this

problem, the most common being long-term storage under bad climate
conditions, dead embryos, or unfertilized eggs (Shanawany, 1994).

Recently, reliable methods using noncontact and nondestructive
analysis                                               in real time represent the best opportunity 
for embryo
detection in the poultry industry. The advent of big data, powerful
processing units, and more efficient algorithms are considered to be

responsible for bringing computer vision (CV) methods using the deep
neural network (DNN) approach to fruition. There are several types of
heuristic algorithms based on neural networks (NNs), such as

convolutional neural networks (CNNs). The ability of CNNs to address
complex nonlinear problems such as image recognition and

classification is responsible for presenting machines with vision sense
and                                           mimicking humans’ capacity to solve problems. 
However, one of the
greatest challenges for these algorithms is regarding speed and
accuracy; sturdy models are those able to generalize predictions of any
new data with a high confidence level similar to humans.

The You Only Look Once (YOLO) object detection algorithm is
currently one of the fastest and most accurate models for image

classification. The YOLO object detection algorithm was released by

Redmon and Farhadi (2016). The breakthrough of this algorithm was to
use a single CNN to predict classes and bounding box coordinates as a
regression problem. This algorithm can also be referred to as a Single
Shot Detector in the class of one-stage detectors. Once an image is
viewed by dividing it into a grid with a size of S × S, the algorithm

predicts the class and bounding boxes for each grid cell. Two-stage

object detector models, such as the R-CNN (Girshick et al., 2014) series
(including Fast R-CNN (Girshick, 2015) and Faster R-CNN (Ren et al.,

2015)), use the region proposal technique to divide the image into

regions and then classify each region according to the proposal boxes.
Although this technique effectively requires too much time for training,
it is not possible for real-time detection.

The main component of CV systems is the camera. Optical cameras
capture                                               light wavelengths in the visible light range 
of the

electromagnetic spectrum; nevertheless, limitations arise due to light
reflectance dependency. Thermal cameras can overcome light


dependency once they capture radiometric information transmitted

through the air by measuring the temperature of an object surface and
by                                             solving their intensity of infrared spectral 
wavelengths that reach

the camera. The high-cost equipment, low resolution, reduced field of
view, and low frame recording represent the main limitations of

thermal cameras (Williams et al., 2022). However, the recently
increasing                                        demand associated with many applications, 
including

healthy monitoring, is enabling thermal cameras to become popular
sensors, which could make them more accessible in the near future.

The aim of this work was to investigate the potential of thermal
microcameras for fast visual, early embryo detection in quail eggs as a
supportive method to improve the hatching rate and contribute to the
further development of automatic incubator systems that are able to
segregate fertilized and unfertilized eggs. Wild birds rotate their eggs
several times a day during natural incubation to improve hatchability
(Tullett                                              & Deeming, 1987), and the rotation of eggs is 
essential to

ensure normal embryo development in many avian species (Yoshizaki
&                                           Saito, 2002; Wilson, 1990; Oliveira et al., 2020). The 
hypothesis was
that longer intervals between turning eggs could make the
identification of unfertilized eggs easier using thermal-based visual
detection- systems. Since the less rotations could keep the developing
embryo static and the temperature associated to it less distributed
among the inside content, therefore facilitating the interpretation by

thermal cameras.

13.2 Materials and Methods

13.2.1 Thermal Imaging

As a noncontact nondestructive method, thermal imaging can be
defined as the sum of the radiance emitted from a material, the

environment (other material radiance), and atmospheric transmission
(Eq. 13.1). Most of the challenges associated with thermal imaging are
to interpret absolute temperatures because thermal radiometric

cameras only reads information from opaque materials; moreover,
thermal imaging may be affected by the radiometric properties of
objects and the medium: transmittance (τ), emissivity (ε) and


reflectance (Fig. 13.1), including the body itself and surroundings

(Maldague, 2001; Lahiri et al., 2015). Another factor that influences the
interpretation of radiometric images is the size of the target; small
surfaces may make the measurements difficult because the number of
pixels describing the surface is diminished.

(13.1)

Rcam is the radiance read by the camera, Rmat denotes the radiance
emitted by the material of interest or body, and Ratm is the radiance
from the atmosphere.

Fig. 13.1 Thermal camera radiance relationship among material, environment,
and the atmosphere

13.2.1.1 Transmittance (τ)

Transmittance is the ratio of a radiant flux transmitted (Φt) to an
incident                                               flux (Φi) (Höpe, 2014) in function of the 
emission wavelength


(λ). Atmospheric transmittance represents one of the greatest issues in
thermal imaging analyses because it can change the radiometric

temperature measurement, thus interfering with the active heat read
by                                                the camera (Eq. 13.2) Inside the incubator 
machines, humidity and
temperature influence the transmission of radiance from the eggs, low
humidity reduces the transmission of radiance, and the best strategy
for enhancing the transmission in this case is to reduce the distance

from the target.

(13.2)

13.2.1.2 Emissivity (ε)

Emissivity is the effectiveness of a material to emit thermal energy
compared                                            with a perfect absorbing energy body, a 
blackbody, at the

same temperature. The real values are measured on a scale from 0 to 1.
The emissivity depends on material characteristics such as format,

temperature, roughness, spectral wavelength, oxidation, and view angle
(Höpe, 2014), and the emissivity of the Galloanserae species eggs

(chicken, quail, turkey, duck, and swan) is higher, approximately 0.98–1
(Björn & Nilsson, 2018). The emissivity (Eq. 13.3) can be defined as the
absorption light of a blackbody minus the reflectance of the object (Re).

(13.3)

13.2.1.3 Re𝑓lectance (ρ)

Reflectance (Eq. 13.4) is the relation of radiant lux in watts between the
reflected signal (Φr) and the incident signal (Φi) (Höpe, 2014). The

reflectance can directly affect the interpretation of thermal values and
is                                            directly related to the angle of view of the target 
from the camera.

Short distances from the target increase the reflectance captured by the
camera; on the other hand, long distances may not be enough to obtain
information from small objects.

(13.4)


13.2.2 Experimental Environment

An experiment was conducted in the Department of Life and

Environmental Sciences of the University of Tsukuba, Tsukuba, Ibaraki
(36°11′19.8″N, 140°10′20.4″E) in the laboratory of Bioproduction and
Machinery during the middle of the spring season, with which the

average range daily temperature was 11–18 °C.

Japanese quail (Coturnix japonica) eggs were collected from a quail
farm located in the city of Toyohashi, province of Aichi in Japan. The

eggs were aleatory collected and shipped by mail on the same day and
transported at room temperature in an appropriate package to avoid
dehydration and impacts. After they arrived, the eggs were put in an
airy place for approximately 5 h, and no kind of treatment, either
washing or wiping, was applied. By performing the procedure, we

repeated the same process performed in breeding farms. Next, we put
the                                              eggs in numerical order, marking them from 1 to 
30, and the

opposite face was marked from 1′ to 30′ (for each treatment of 30
eggs). The eggs were then placed directly inside the automatic
incubator machine.

The equipment chosen to incubate the eggs was a fully automatic
incubator                                           machine (no brand) with 110v and automatic 
control of

temperature, humidity, and rotation. The temperature was set to

37.8 °C with a low variation of +/−0.3 °C, and the humidity was
maintained at 60%, varying by +/−10%.

We divided our experiment into two phases. In the first phase, a

total of 60 quail eggs were incubated twice, and 30 eggs were incubated
at                                                a time. In this step, the objective was to define 
the methodology to

collect data using a thermal microcamera, such as the position of eggs
and                                            camera, including the best interval time to collect 
data. Phase two
consisted of the experiment. Here, we incubated 120 eggs in total,
divided into 4 groups of 30 eggs each. For three groups, the eggs were
rotated in different periods: every 90 min, 6, and 12 h. The fourth

groups were composed only of unfertilized eggs bought from grocery
stores. We incubated 30 of these eggs to perform an accuracy


assessment of unfertile eggs and applied these data to train the deep
learning models.

13.2.3  Thermal Image Acquisition and Radiometric
Corrections

The thermal images were collected with a thermal microcamera FLIR®
(Teledyne FLIR LLC, Wilsonville, Oregon, U.S.) Model VUE™ 336,

6.8 mm, with a sensor resolution of 336 × 256 pixels and a spectral
band range 7.5–13.5 μm, size 2.26″ (5.74 cm) × 1.75″ (4.44 cm). This is
a powerful camera especially designed to board unmanned aerial

vehicles (UAV) and can be controlled by a smartphone app named
FLIR® UAS™ 2, which is provided by the same manufacturer.

The camera was placed in a top-view position, with a distance of

10 cm from the targets (eggs), and the egg-by-egg images were

collected inside the incubator, avoiding exposure of eggs to ambient
room temperature for a long period (Fig. 13.2). The image resolution
provided by the camera was 640 pixels in width by 487 in height. Data
were manually collected every 12 h (at 9 AM/9 PM), and the thermal

camera was controlled by a SHARP® smartphone (Sharp Corporation,
Sakai,                                           Osaka, Japan), AQUOS™ sense4 basic Model A003SH and
Operational System ANDROID™ version 11 app connected by Bluetooth.
This procedure was performed for 7 days for each group (treatment) of
eggs. To collect the data, we separately moved the eggs to the left

corner of the incubator, where only one egg at a time could fit in the

frame image and moved the eggs by picking them up from the equator
borders. Radiometric images were saved in a micro-Secure Digital (SD)
Card on the camera in Joint Photographic Experts Group (JPG) format
and transferred to a personal computer (PC) for data analysis. On the

8th day, the eggs were broken to assess the embryos inside the eggs.


Fig. 13.2  Quail egg incubation process using a thermal camera and a deep
learning structure

For rotation of eggs, we employed a DC 12v motor embedded in the
incubator. The eggs were turned 180° every period (90 min, 6 and 12 h)
for each cluster, and the unfertile eggs were turned every 90 min. The
radiometric images were corrected with the software FLIR® Thermal
Studio™; the images were filtered with Isotherms and classified for the
above temperatures; and manual adjustments of contrast and red
saturation were performed to highlight the visible features on the eggs.

Isometric transformation is a radiometric pixel classification that
highlights temperatures above, in the middle or below a threshold. For
egg incubation analysis, we chose the isotherms above the threshold,
making                                              it possible to capture features from fertilized 
and unfertilized
eggs.

13.2.4 Deep Learning Algorithms and Analysis
Environment

YOLOv4 is embedded in the framework Darknet (neural network
framework, open source written in C programming language and

CUDA). This supervised learning-based algorithm uses a single CNN to
extract features of images and to create a model based on a training


dataset to predict objects with a certain level of accuracy and their
positions on frames or pictures.

From its release in 2016, YOLO object detection family have been

gradually expanded. The fourth generation of YOLO, also referred to as
the 4th version or YOLOv4, released by Bochkovskiy et al. (2020), has
been one of the fastest and most accurate object detection models

(Bochkovskiy et al., 2020). YOLOv4 uses the Cross Stage Partial
Darknet-53 (CSPDarknet-53) (Wang et al., 2020), which is a new
backbone that is capable of enhancing CNN learning, the path

aggregation network (PANet) and spatial pyramid pooling (SPP). These
new                                            additions were responsible for enhancing speed by 
12% and
accuracy by 10% compared with YOLOv3 (previous version of YOLO).

The breakthrough of YOLO was its ability to visualize an entire
image                                               at once, dividing it into a grid of S × S and 
then to create a map of
probabilities for Region of Interest (ROI) by regression (Fig. 13.3). The
ROI tells CNN which region has a high chance of finding the object in

each frame. These characteristics was improved in YOLOv4, thus,
enabling real-time object detection implementation with more

accuracy. In addition, YOLOv4 was designed to be efficiently trained
using                                             only one graphics processing unit (GPU).


Fig. 13.3  (a) Input frame in the deep learning process S × S grid. (b) Class
probability map from each grid cell. (c) Predicted bounding box and
confidence. (d) Final object detection


Recently, YOLO series have been evolving and several versions are
currently available. Improvements are being done by companies,
including YOLOv5 series (YOLOv5, 2021), developed by Ultralytics®.

However, no peer reviewed article paper has being released along with

them. Besides that, the community of developers engaged on YOLO
family started to complain about the usage of YOLO’s name by

companies when launching new improved versions. YOLOv5, uses the
same backbone as YOLOv4 (CSPDarknet-53), the difference is in the

neck part, which is composed by feature pyramid network (FPN) (Liu et
al., 2018) and pixel aggregation network (PAN) (Lin et al., 2017), these
additions are responsible for improvements in accuracy and faster

training process. Another modification is that YOLOv5 is embed in
PyTorch                                          framework. YOLOv5 is qualified as faster and 
accurate, besides
accomplish light files which makes it suitable for low-end deployment
devices.

In this work, we trained an object detection model using YOLOv4 to
validate our results for embryo detection as a supportive method to
assess the visual observation of thermal imaging features and to

contribute to the future development of automatic classification

equipment, in addition we trained a YOLOv5-L6 and an SSD-MobileNet
V2 to compare the performance of improvements on the algorithm.

As the YOLOv4 and YOLOv5 share the same base architecture. We
also trained an SSD-MobileNet V2 model to compare the performance
of different architectures when detecting unfertilized eggs using the
methodology proposed in this work to collect thermal images.

SSD-MobileNet V2 (Sandler et al., 2018) is another representant of
one-stage detectors architecture that adopts the same single shot
detection (SSD) mechanism similarly to YOLO. However, it gained
popularity due to its faster performance at low compute devices such
as mobile phones (therefore, MobileNet) and low-end computers such
as development boards NVIDIA® Jetson series, Raspberry Pi, and

Google Coral. The V2 version of this deep learning algorithm introduced

depth-wise convolution layer, which reduce the number of parameters
and                                          contribute to improve the performance, in the V2 added 
the

expansion-filtering-compression, known as inverted residual structure,


which contribute for improvement of performance. In this work we

trained a model SSD-MobileNet V2 to compare the performance of two
SSD models, keeping in mind the potential application of our
methodology on high throughput system.

13.2.4.1 Models Training

We trained all the models using only images of unfertilized eggs and
collected a total of 420 images (30 images each period of 12 h). From
these images, the same procedure as previously described (FLIR®

Thermal Studio) was performed, and then image augmentation was

performed to increase the dataset to make the model more predictive.

13.2.4.2 Data Labeling

A short program written in Python programming language was utilized
to                                               label the images by using the OpenCV library. We 
drew the bounding
boxes (bbox) and saved them into the YOLO format coordinates (Fig.

13.4). As for SSD-MobileNet V2 we labeled the data using the LabelImg
software                                                 in format PASCAL VOC XML.


Fig. 13.4 YOLO labeling format coordinates and sizes in pixels

13.2.4.3 Data Augmentation

The images from unfertilized eggs were augmented to enlarge the
dataset                                               and made the models more effective in 
detecting unseen eggs.
We applied random spatial/pixel level transformations by rotating and
changing the thermal effects of visualization. Thus, datasets were

enhanced to 1892 images in total. Image augmentation for spatial

transformation was performed in several ways: clockwise rotation 90°,
clockwise rotation 180°, and clockwise rotation 270° (Fig. 13.5). In
addition, pixel transformation was performed using grayscale

conversion.


Fig. 13.5  Quail egg image enhancement process and augmentation for dataset
preparation during incubation in isotherm processing of original images and
monochrome transformation. (a) Original images. (b–d). Augmentation of
original  images using 90°, 180°, and 270° rotations. (e) Original position with
pixel augmentation using monochrome transformation. (f–h) Augmentation of
monochrome transformed images for 90°, 180°, and 270° rotations

The images were divided into two datasets: training dataset and
validation dataset. We adopted the proportion of 70:30. In total, 1325
images were selected for training and 567 images were selected for
validation. To test the model, we used the data from the incubation

treatment (420 images for each cluster separately tested) and then
compared the precision of detection.

The network size for training the YOLOv4 model was set to

416 × 416, and the number of iterations was set to 4000 steps (Table
13.1). However, we stopped training when the average loss no longer
decreased. The training was performed on a PC with 32 GB of RAM
memory, an NVIDIA® GTX 1650™ 4 GB GPU and a central processing
unit (CPU) Intel® Xeon™ E5-1607, Python version 3.8.5, CUDA 10.1,
cuDNN 7.6.5, and OpenCV 4.4.0.

Table 13.1 YOLOv4 and YOLOv5 training parameters


YOLOv4
YOLOv5

Batch

64

16

Input size

416 × 416

416 × 416

Momentum

0.949

0.937

Decay

0.0005

0.0005

Learning rate

0.0001

0.0001

YOLOv5 model was trained in the Google Collab cloud platform. The
framework version used was PyTorch 1.11.0 + cu102 and 16 GB GPU
Tesla T4. The training parameters are shown in Table 13.1, the epochs
of training (number of iterations) were set to 60, the source code was

cloned from official Ultralytics® GitHub.

SSD-MobileNet V2 was trained using the same computational

resources used for training YOLOv4. However, we trained the model
using the TensorFlow API object detection framework, in an

environment built with Tensorflow 2.3.1 and Tensorflow-gpu 2.3.1. The
input size of this model was 320 × 320 and 40,000 steps for training.

13.2.4.4 Model Evaluation

Several metrics were applied to evaluate the deep learning models,
including                                            precision (P), recall (R), F1 score, and mean 
average precision
(mAP). Object detection evaluations are based on four factors: true
positive detections (TP): unfertilized eggs are correctly detected; true

negatives (TN): unfertilized eggs are not shown and are not detected;
false-positive                                               (FP): object is detected, but it does 
not correspond to any
class, and false negative (FN): model does not label an object but was
supposed to perform this task (Fig. 13.6).


Fig. 13.6  (a) True positive; (b) true negative (TN); (c) false-positive (FP); (d)
false negative (FN)

P (Eq. 13.5) and R (Eq. 13.6) are measurements that evaluate the
relevance of detection. R returns the real relevance of the results,

considering false negative detections, while P considers false-positive
detections.                                                The F1 score (Eq. 13.7) is a measurement 
that indicates the


relation degree of P and R, as the higher the F1 score is, the higher the
values of P and R, the more accurate the detections may be.

To categorize the truthiness of a class, the concept of intersection
over                                             union (IoU) was applied (Eq. 13.8). This metric 
regards ground
truth and detection (Fig. 13.7)

(13.5)

(13.6)

(13.7)

(13.8)


Fig. 13.7  IoU details of false-positive and true positive detection for
unfertilized eggs

The mean average precision (mAP) is the average precision (AP)
over                                              the number of classes (Eq. 13.10). The AP is a 
metric used in the
PASCAL VOC challenge (Everingham et al., 2010); it was obtained by

calculating the area under the P-R curves interpolated at 11 points (Eq.
13.9). However, the interpretation may vary depending on the problem
of classification. For instance, in COCO dataset evaluation, the metric AP
was considered equivalent to mAP. This metric is important for object
detection model evaluation because it considers the arrangement
between P and R and the relation of FP and FN.


(13.9)

(13.10)

13.3 Results

The first two trials served the purpose of establishing the best

procedure to collect data for the experiment. The results from this trial
showed that collecting data from the upside face of eggs was more

effective for the instant identification of features than collecting data

from the downside face at either the short end or the large end of eggs.
From the first trial, we collected images by removing the eggs from the
incubator machine. In the second trial, we collected images from the
inside of the incubator machine, and the second option suggest being

the best for preventing the instantaneous exchange of temperature
within                                              the environment and for improving thermal 
transmission. On

the 8th day, the eggs were artificially hatched to assess the presence of
embryos (Table 13.2). As expected, the unfertilized eggs presented no
embryos.

Table 13.2 Assessment of embryos on the 8th day of incubation

Period of turning eggs With embryo No embryo Number of egg w/no embryo

12 h             29        1       11

6 h              26        4        1, 11, 20, 28

1.5 h             25        5        2, 8, 14, 22, 27

Unfertilized 1.5 h     0         30      1–30

13.3.1 Thermal Features of Incubating Eggs

Using isotherm filtering, we observed different feature patterns of
fertilized eggs to unfertilized eggs (Fig. 13.8).


Fig. 13.8 Isotherm filtering for observing different feature patterns of fertilized
(No. 10) and unfertilized eggs (No. 11) during the first days of incubation

Different periods of egg turning showed different patterns of

thermal images, although similarities were also observed. For example,
the                                             common characteristic of most fertilized eggs was 
the presence of a
“chamber” structure in the middle of the dark red spot (which is related
to the composition of embryo and egg structures). As the days of
incubation were passing, the chamber structure became less apparent

(Fig. 13.9) For example, through thermal analysis under isotherm

classification, the evolution of 2 eggs over 7 days is shown. The eggs
were                                          incubated for a turning period of 12 h. It is 
possible to observe
that after 72 h, the structures became less apparent compared with
unfertilized eggs. For unfertilized eggs, the dark spots became larger
due to the accumulation of gases from the decomposition of yolk and
dehydration.

Fig. 13.9  Thermal analysis under isotherm classification for fertilized and
unfertilized eggs after turning for a 12-h period over a 7-day incubation period


Eggs turned every 6 h showed constant features during the data
collection period (Fig. 13.10). Fertilized eggs had chamber features,
while the binary pair did not show the same characteristics as eggs
incubated for the 12 h rotation period.

Fig. 13.10  Thermal images or eggs incubated at turning periods of 6 h in a
total 7-day incubation period for fertilized and unfertilized eggs

For the eggs incubated during the 1.5 h period of turning, we

observed that similar structures were also identified; however, from
visual                                            analysis by human eyes, such features were less 
clear than those
of the previous two images shown above (Fig. 13.11).

Fig. 13.11  Thermal images from eggs incubated at turning periods of 1.5 h in a
total 7-day incubation period for fertilized and unfertilized eggs


13.3.2 Training Results

The YOLOv4 model was trained for approximately 20 h, and we stopped
the                                             training when the average loss reached less than 
0.5 and the mAP
was higher than 90% for the training dataset (Fig. 13.12a). YOLOv5

trained in Google Collab have taken 1 h to be completed (Fig. 13.12b).

SSD-MobilenetV2 model was obtained after 4 h of training in the PC
environment (Fig. 13.12c).



Fig. 13.12 (a) Average loss during training of datasets using Darknet
framework for YOLOv4. (b) YOLOv5 Training in Google Collab using PyTorch
framework. (c) SSD-MobileNet V2 training loss in the TensorFlow framework

The evaluation of training was performed by calculating the
measurements                                                as described in the results (Table 
13.3). To test the
model on three experimental treatments, we composed all the data of
each cluster in only one image. As shown in the table, each egg picture
was cropped to 30 × 30 pixels to reduce the size for comparing images

from 12, 6, and 1.5 h (Figs. 13.13, 13.14, and 13.15 shows an example of
testing YOLOv4 model).

Table 13.3  YOLOv4, YOLOv5, and SSD-MobileNet V2 training model evaluation
using the IoU threshold of 0.5 or 50% for the detection of unfertilized eggs


Model

YOLOv4
YOLOv5

SSD-MobileNet
V2

Dataset

Validation
Validation

Validation

Precision
(P)

0.97

1

1

Recall
(R)

0.99

0.99

0.94

F1

score

0.98

0.99

0.96

Average IoU
(%)

77.39

–a

–a

mAP@0.50
(%)

98.62

99.5

91.8

a Information not available



Fig. 13.13 Object detection of eggs turned every 12 h under no threshold



Fig. 13.14 Object detection of eggs turned every 6 h under no threshold



Fig. 13.15  Object Detection of eggs turned every 1.5 h (90 min) under no
threshold

To compare the images, we numbered the eggs from 1 to 30 in the
rows. For the columns, we indicated the periods of data collection, from
12 h of incubation (first day) to 168 h (seventh day). Next, we

calculated the precision, recall, and F1-score according to the detection
assessment                                              (Table 13.4 and Fig. 13.16). Note that we 
have discarded

the “156 h” data from the 6 and 1.5 h datasets due to errors generated
while                                           collecting images. However, the analysis was 
conducted based

only on the presented data as follows; Table 13.5 presents the
evaluation of metrics according to describe in Sect. 13.2.4.4.

Table 13.4 Testing dataset detection evaluation parameters under a threshold
of 0.5 in the YOLOv4 and YOLOv5, SSD-MobileNet V2 the threshold at 0.18
models for the detection of unfertilized eggs


Model

YOLOv4

YOLOv5

SSD-

MobileNet
V2

Dataset
(h)

12

6

1.5

12

6

1.5

12

6

1.5

Total
detections

7

106

86

11

36

23

6

11

6

True
positive
(TP)

6

32

29

11

24

17

6

7

0

True
negative
(TN)

413

314

334

409

384

397

414

409

414

False
negative
(FN)

8

20

36

0

28

48

8

45

65

False-
positive
(FP)

1

74

57

0

12

6

0

4

6



Fig. 13.16  (a) Testing data set precision comparison between three models.

(b) Recall comparison. (c) F1 Score comparison

Table 13.5  Evaluation of precision (P), recall (R), and F1-score in the YOLOv4,
YOLOv5 and SSD-MobileNet V2 models for the detection of unfertilized eggs

Model        Dataset (h) Precision (P) Recall (R) F1-score

YOLOv4       12       0.857      0.428    0.569

6       0.301      0.615    0.404

1.5      0.337      0.446    0.383

YOLOv5       12       1         1       1

6        0.66       0.5      0.56

1.5      0.60       0.26     0.36

SSD-MobileNet V2 12       1         0.42     0.59

6        0.63       0.13     0.21

1.5       0         0       0

Table 13.3 shows the deep learning algorithms training

performance, according to the metrics explained in Sect. 13.2.4.4, the
mAP@0.50 is the main evaluation method for training models, it can be
interpreted as the area under the interpolation of P and R curves. The
value 0.50 is regarding the IoU, that considers an object detection if the
overlap section overcome 50% of the ground truth (labeled object).

YOLOv5 showed better mAP@0.50, followed by YOLOv4 and SSD-
MobileNet V2.

The unfertilized eggs were assessed on the 8th day of incubation as
indicated in Table 13.2. The calculation presented in Tables 13.4 and

13.5 are based on that.

In Table 13.4 the object detection resultant from our test dataset
were                                         tabulated. The total detections show the number of 
bounding
boxes that were displayed for each model and for each treatment for
detection of unfertilized eggs, the 6 h dataset displayed more bounding
boxes over the three datasets. The total detection can also be

interpreted as the sum of TP and FP detections as well, according to
example given in Fig. 13.6, Sect. 13.2.4.4. TP column stands for the
bounding boxes displayed around correct unfertilized eggs; TN is the


total of eggs that were neither classified as unfertilized eggs nor the
probability                                                 of being an unfertilized egg falls 
below the threshold (50%
for YOLOv4 and YOLOv5 and 18% for SSD-Mobilenet V2), therefore, not
detected as unfertilized eggs. FN is the quantity of unfertilized eggs that
were not detected by the object detection algorithms. FP represents the
number of bounding boxes displayed around eggs but not correspond
to unfertilized eggs indeed.

Table 13.5 results from the calculation of metrics by using the data
on Table 13.4. The P value was obtained using Eq. (13.5), it can be
understood                                                as the relation of unfertilized eggs that 
were corrected
marked with bounding box over the total bounding boxes. The R is a
metric the tells us the proportion of unfertilized eggs that were not
detected by the object detector but should be detected. The F1 score
stands for the balance between P and R, from this metric we can
evaluate the proportion of assertiveness of each deep learning model
on unseen dataset, in our case F1 score can tell us the proportion of
unfertilized eggs detected by the YOLOv4, YOLOv5, and SSD-MobileNet
V2 algorithm.

13.4 Discussion

The embryo development of quail eggs takes 16.5 days to complete
according to Ainsworth et al. (2010). The same authors also affirms
that although the incubation period of quail eggs and hen eggs differ
(21.5                                           days for hen’s eggs), the embryo development stages 
are quite
similar, making it possible to compare the development process

between them. Several studies on the characterization of avian embryo
development have been reported (Hamburger & Hamilton, 1951;
Sittmann et al., 1966; Graham & Meier, 1975; Ruffins et al., 2007). Most
of the studies were focused on understanding the biological functioning
of structures and genetics. However, due to the recent availability of
sophisticated sensors and computational methods, new approaches for
poultry yield improvements have been reported. In this study, we
aimed to unleash the potential of thermal cameras to detect features

that could differentiate fertilized eggs from unfertilized eggs as a
nondestructive and noncontact technique. The overall goal was to


contribute to monitoring the hatching process for more efficient quail
hatching management.

The method of incubation utilized in this study differed from most
common automatic incubator machines in industrial quail farms. For
industrial incubators, the eggs are usually allocated in the vertical
position and are periodically turned 45°, which is specifically related to
facilitating labor operations on a large scale. Van de Ven et al. (2011)

compared the position of hen eggs during incubation and concluded
that                                           position did not significantly interfere with the 
hatching rate.

Oliveira et al. (2020) compared different turning periods of hen eggs
and                                           concluded that reducing the frequency of turning eggs 
affects the
hatchability of chicks. In this study, we did not evaluate the hatchability
of eggs or mortality.

Thermal cameras produce images by solving the intensity of
infrared wavelengths transmitted to the thermal sensor; the major
limitations                                           of this kind of camera are low resolution and 
high price

(Williams et al., 2022). Reflectance, transmittance, and emissivity are
the                                              main factors of the application of thermal 
cameras, and the main
use of this kind of sensor is specifically related to nocturne vision and
body temperature monitoring. In this study, we proposed the use of

thermal imaging to observe the thermal behavior of quail eggs during
incubation                                              stages. The use of isotherm filtering is 
the main point of this
proposed methodology to identify unfertilized eggs, as isotherms can

cluster radiometric information under a threshold. The variations in
the eggshell due to the development of the embryo and the

transformation of the yolk sac content, allantois and air chamber were
expected to interfere with the dynamics of gases through the

micropores of the shell. Therefore, thermal imaging can capture these
changes. However, the lack of a standard configuration of isotherm

controls might be the main factor responsible for the poor clarity of
features that could facilitate the classification of embryo absence.

The deep learning-based algorithms proved to be a powerful tool
for                                             vision systems operation in real time, and the high 
precision of the
model showed that it is possible to extract features of thermal images
from unfertilized eggs. However, we observed that more data are

necessary to improve the robustness of the model. We realized that


classifying images using only one class might be not enough to push the
bias of the model for more precise detailed feature extractions inside

the eggs. In further research, we will address such limitations to
overcome by increasing the classes.

From the results we observed that YOLOv5 over performed the all
the other models. For training performance mAP@0.50 was smoothly
higher than other two models, and the F1 score in the testing dataset
was better, that is because the model presented less FP over all

detections. YOLOv4 followed the YOLOv5, and the worst results were
obtained from SSD-MobileNet V2. The result of P shows that YOLOv5
was more precise for detecting unfertilized eggs under 50% of

confidence.

We also noticed that the fertilized egg thermal profile shows similar
structures that are not dependent on the period of egg turning.

However, the low resolution of thermal cameras can compromise the
recognition of features, that is, the distance and transmittance effects
can compromise the detection of features. We observed that errors

occurring during the collection of data may be responsible for poor
radiometric data, and consequently, the misclassification of eggs. For

the testing results, we observed that a few numbers of unfertilized eggs
in                                               each treatment were not sufficient to infer that 
different turning
periods can improve the detection of a class. However, using these
datasets, we could test the deep learning model and ensure the

potential for detecting embryos (by exclusion of unfertilized eggs) in
the early stages of incubation. Most unfertilized eggs were correctly
recognized, although the error caused by false-positive detections led
the precision of the model to low values (except for the 12 h intervals,
which presented a low error but only one fertilized egg).

This work proved that it is possible to use a nondestructive and
noninvasive method to identify embryos in the early stages of

development. In addition, thermal cameras can contribute to an

enhanced hatching rate because unfertilized eggs can be removed

before incubation, which represents a gain in the contention of a waste
of resources, such as space and energy in quail breeding farms. High

throughput applications of the methodology proposed in this work are
possible. However, fine studies will be addressed for standardization of


isotherms filtering, as the lack of filtering pattern represents the main
bottleneck for the methodology presented herewith. The breakthrough
methodology proposed to identify embryos in early stages during
incubation period can be extended to other avian eggs, besides that,

low-cost devices and online inference are possible as well. Further
studies                                             will be conducted in this regard by expanding 
data sets and
development of fine-tuning kernels for fertilized eggs thermal imaging.

13.5 Conclusions

The methodology developed in this study was able to identify different
features                                                 of fertilized quail eggs from unfertilized 
eggs by using thermal
microcamera and deep learning algorithms. The use of isotherm
analysis during the incubation period associated with the YOLO object
detection algorithm showed immense potential to compose automated
systems based on CV for the classification of unfertilized eggs in early
stages. Different characteristics for fertilized eggs and unfertilized eggs
were identified for all the evaluated treatments, concluding that

different periods of egg rotation do not interfere in the identification of
embryos in early incubation. We noticed that unfertilized eggs could be
identified after 12 h of incubation. To test the model, we reduced the

original size and clustered all images into only one image dataset to test
the robustness of the model when fitting the model all at once. The

results showed that the model did not overfit the training dataset, as
we                                              could observe that most of our targets were 
correctly classified. The
results from the evaluation of the training dataset showed high

precision for the validation dataset. However, when testing the images
under                                              each treatment dataset, the precision was 
reduced. Several

reasons may be responsible for the reduced precision of the testing
model, such as the short resolution of testing images and issues
associated with errors when collecting data using a thermal

microcamera at each period. A further study will be conducted to
enhance the precision of detection, including enlargement of the
dataset and classification of fertilized eggs.

Acknowledgments


Thanks to Open Access Publishers Sensors from MDPI to have their
policy to support the authors for reusing of the published article. In this
regard, we would like to extend our gratitude to Sensors Journal to
publish this article (https://doi.org/10.3390/s22155820).

Conflicts of Interest  The authors declare no conflicts of interest.

References

Ainsworth, S. J., Stanley, R. L., & Evans, D. J. (2010). Developmental stages of
the Japanese quail. Journal of Anatomy, 216(1), 3–15. https://doi.org/10.1111/
j.1469-7580.2009.01173.x

[Crossref][PubMed]

Bamelis, F. R., Tona, K., DeBaerdemaeker, J. G., & Decuypere, E. M. (2002).
Detection of early embryonic development in chicken eggs using visible light
transmission. British Poultry Science, 43, 204–212.

[Crossref][PubMed]

Bertechini, A. G. (2012) The quail production. Area: Poultry welfare and
environment. In Proceedings of the 24th World’s Poultry Congress, Salvador,
Bahia, Brazil (pp. 1–4).

Bjö rn, L. O., & Nilsson, A. M. (2018) Thermal emissivity: Basics, measurement,
and biological examples. In Bioinspired engineering of thermal materials (pp.

159–174). Wiley.

Bochkovskiy, A., Wang, C.-Y., & Mark Liao, H.-Y. (2020) Yolov4: Optimal speed
and accuracy of object detection. arXiv preprint arXiv:2004.10934.

Coucke, P. M., Room, G. M., Decuypere, E. M., & De Baerdemaeker, J. G. (1997).
Monitoring embryo development in chicken eggs using acoustic resonance
analysis. Biotechnology Progress, 13(4), 474–478.

[Crossref][PubMed]

Dong, J., Dong, X., Li, Y., Peng, Y., Chao, K., Gao, C., & Tang, X. (2019).
Identification of unfertilized duck eggs before hatching using visible/near
infrared transmittance spectroscopy. Computers and Electronics in Agriculture,
157, 471–478. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.2019.01.021

[Crossref]


Everingham, M., et al. (2010). The pascal visual object classes (VOC) challenge.

International Journal of Computer Vision, 88(2), 303–338.
[Crossref]

Girshick, R. (2015). Fast R-CNN. In Proceedings of the IEEE International
Conference on Computer Vision (ICCV) (pp. 1440–1448).

Girshick, R., et al. (2014). Rich feature hierarchies for accurate object detection
and semantic segmentation. In Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer
Vision and Pattern Recognition.

Graham, D. L., & Meier, G. W. (1975). Standards of morphological development
of the quail, Coturnix coturnix japonica, embryo. Growth, 39(3), 389–400.
[PubMed]

Hamburger, V., & Hamilton, H. L. (1951). A series of normal stages in the
development of the chick embryo. Journal of Morphology, 88(1), 49–92.
[Crossref][PubMed]

Hö pe, A. (2014). Diffuse reflectance and transmittance. In Spectrophotometry—
Accurate measurement of optical properties of materials (Experimental methods
in  the physical sciences) (Vol. 46, pp. 179–219). Academic. https://doi.org/10.
1016/B978-0-12-386022-4.00006-6

Khaliduzzaman, A., Kashimori, A., Suzuki, T., Ogawa, Y., & Kondo, N. (2021).
Research note: Nondestructive detection of super grade chick embryos or
hatchlings using near-infrared spectroscopy. Poultry Science, 100(7), 101189.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.psj.2021.101189. ISSN 0032-5791.

[Crossref][PubMed][PubMedCentral]

Lahiri, B. B., Bagavathiappan, S., Soumya, C., Jayakumar, T., & Philip, J. (2015).
Infrared thermography based studies on mobile phone induced heating.

Infrared Physics & Technology, 71, 242–251. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.infrared.
2015.04.010. ISSN1350-4495.

[Crossref]

Lin, T. Y., Dollár, P., Girshick, R., et al. (2017). Feature pyramid networks for
object detection. In: Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and
Pattern Recognition (pp. 2117–2125). Retrieved from https://arxiv.org/abs/
1612.03144v2


Liu, L., & Ngadi, M. O. (2013). Detecting fertility and early embryo development
of chicken eggs using near-infrared hyperspectral imaging. Food and Bioprocess
Technology, 6, 2503–2513. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11947-012-0933-3
[Crossref]

Liu, S., Qi, L., Qin, H., et al. (2018). Path aggregation network for instance
segmentation. In: Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and
Pattern Recognition (pp. 8759–8768). Retrieved from https://arxiv.org/abs/
1803.01534v4

Lovarelli, D., Bacenetti, J., & Marcella Guarino, A. (2020). Review on dairy cattle
farming: Is precision livestock farming the compromise for an environmental,
economic and social sustainable production? Journal of Cleaner Production, 262,
121409. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2020.121409. ISSN 0959-6526.
[Crossref]

Lukanov, H. (2019). Domestic quail (Coturnix japonica domestica), is there
such farm animal? World’s Poultry Science Journal, 75(4), 547–558. https://doi.
org/10.1017/S0043933919000631

[Crossref]

Maldague, X. (2001). Theory and practice of infrared technology for
nondestructive testing. Wiley.

Martins, E. N. (2002). Perspectivas do melhoramento genético de codornas no
Brasil. Simpósio internacional de coturnicultura, 1, 109–112.

Oliveira, G. d. S., dos Santos, V. M., Rodrigues, J. C., & Nascimento, S. T. (2020).
Effects of different egg turning frequencies on incubation efficiency parameters.
Poultry Science, 99(9), 4417–4420. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.psj.2020.05.045.

ISSN 0032-5791.

[Crossref]

Qin, W. C., Tang, X. Y., Peng, Y. K., & Zhao, X. H. (2017). Identification of fertilized
chicken eggs based on visible/near-infrared spectrum during early stage of
incubation. Spectroscopy and Spectral Analysis, 37(1), 200–204.

[PubMed]

Redmon, J., & Farhadi, A. (2016). YOLO9000: Better, faster, stronger. In

Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition
(CVPR), Honolulu, HI, USA, 21–26 July 2017 (pp. 7263–7271).


Ren, S., He, K., Girshick, R., & Sun J. (2015). Faster R-CNN: Towards real-time
object detection with region proposal networks. In Advances in Neural
Information Processing Systems (NIPS) (pp. 91–99).

Ruffins, S. W., et al. (2007). Digital three-dimensional atlas of quail
development using high-resolution MRI. The Scientific World Journal, 7, 592–
604.

[Crossref][PubMed][PubMedCentral]

Sandler, M., et al. (2018). Mobilenetv2: Inverted residuals and linear
bottlenecks. In Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and
Pattern Recognition.

Shanawany, M. M. (1994). Quail production systems: a review. FAO.

Sittmann, K., Abplanalp, H., & Fraser, R. A. (1966). Inbreeding depression in
Japanese quail. Genetics, 54(2), 371–379. https://doi.org/10.1093/genetics/

54.2.371

[Crossref][PubMed][PubMedCentral]

Tullett, S. G., & Deeming, D. C. (1987). Failure to turn eggs during incubation:
Effects on embryo weight, development of the chorioallantois and absorption
of albumen. British Poultry Science, 28(2), 239–243.

[Crossref][PubMed]

van de Ven, L. J. F., Baller, L., van Wagenberg, A. V., Kemp, B., & van den Brand,

H. (2011). Effects of egg position during late incubation on hatching
parameters and chick quality. Poultry Science, 90(10), 2342–2347. https://doi.
org/10.3382/ps.2011-01467. ISSN 0032-5791.

[Crossref][PubMed]

Wang, C.-Y., et al. (2020). CSPNet: A new backbone that can enhance learning
capability of CNN. In 2020 IEEE CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern
Recognition Workshops (CVPRW).

Wathes, C. M., Kristensen, H. H., Aerts, J. M., & Berckmans, D. (2008). Is
precision livestock farming an engineer’s daydream or nightmare, an animal’s
friend or foe, and a farmer’s panacea or pitfall? Computers and Electronics in
Agriculture, 64, 2–10. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.2008.05.005
[Crossref]


Williams, S. M., Bariselli, S., Palego, C., Holland, R., & Cross, P. (2022). A
comparison of machine-learning assisted optical and thermal camera systems
for beehive activity counting. Smart Agricultural Technology, 2, 100038. https://
doi.org/10.1016/j.atech.2022.100038. ISSN2 772-3755.

[Crossref]

Wilson, H. R. (1990). Physiological requirements of the developing embryo:
Temperature and turning. In Avian incubation (pp. 145–156).

YOLOv5. (2021). Retrieved July 2022, from https://github.com/ultralytics/
yolov5

Yoshizaki, N., & Saito, H. (2002). Changes in shell membranes during the
development of quail embryos. Poultry Science, 81, 246–251.

[Crossref][PubMed]

Yu, H., Wang, G., Zhao, Z., Wang, H., & Wang, Z. (2019). Chicken embryo fertility
detection based on PPG and convolutional neural network. Infrared Physics &
Technology, 103, 103075. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.infrared.2019.103075
[Crossref]

Zhang, W., Pan, L., Tu, K., Zhang, Q., & Liu, M. (2014). Comparison of spectral
and image morphological analysis for egg early hatching property detection
based on hyperspectral imaging. PLoS One, 9(2), e88659. https://doi.org/10.
1371/journal.pone.0088659

[Crossref][PubMed][PubMedCentral]


© The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd. 2023

T. Ahamed (ed.), IoT and AI in Agriculture

https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-19-8113-5_14

14. Strategic Short Note: Intelligent Sensing
and Robotic Picking of Kiwifruit in Orchard

Longsheng Fu¹

(1) College of Mechanical and Electronic Engineering, Northwest A&F
University, Xianyang, Shaanxi, China

Longsheng Fu

Email: fulsh@nwafu.edu.cn

Abstract

Kiwifruits are commercially grown on sturdy support structures such
as T-bars and pergolas, which has great desiring to be harvested
mechanically                                           as unstable field labor availability and 
increased labor

cost. Intelligent sensing and nondestructive picking of fruit are the two
main key technologies for robotic harvesting. Deep learning

technologies has been employed to train and detect kiwifruit, which
achieved good performance by improving YOLOv3-tiny with two

convolutional kernels to learn features of fruit calyx. Fruits were then
classified into five classes based on their robotic picking strategy and
field occlusions, which succeed to identify those fruits occluded by
wires and branches. On the other hand, non-destructive end-effector
was developed by simulating hand picking with a bionic mechanism.

Drop distance of kiwifruit from the end-effector to container without

fruit damage was also investigated. A kiwifruit picking robot was finally
integrated with a tracked trolley, robot arm, fruit convey tube, and

control system, which can pick a fruit with 2 s.

Keywords Kiwifruit – Intelligent sensing – Deep learning – Non-
destructive picking – Robot


14.1 Introduction

China is the largest country producing kiwifruits worldwide. Harvesting
kiwifruits                                                  in this area mainly depends on manual 
picking, which is

labor-intensive. Therefore, introducing mechanical harvesting is highly
desired. Kiwifruits are commercially grown on sturdy support
structures such as T-bars and pergolas. Automatic detection of kiwifruit
in the orchard is challenging because illumination varies through the
day and night and because of color similarity between kiwifruit and the
complex background of leaves, branches and stems (Fu et al., 2021).

Also, kiwifruits grow in clusters, which may result in having occluded
and touching fruits (Suo et al., 2021). Intelligent sensing and

nondestructive picking of fruit are the two main key technologies for
robotic                                          harvesting. Therefore, the main purpose of this 
research was to
develop intelligent sensing of kiwifruit and nondestructive picking of

fruit using robotic technologies.

14.2 Intelligent Sensing of Kiwifruit

One of the hardest challenges in the orchard automation is the
harvesting robot specially for soft and delicate fruits. The fruits

detection or object of recognition from leaves, branches, and wires are
most toughs works. In this regard, a fast and accurate object detection
algorithm was developed to automatically detect kiwifruits in the

orchard by improving the YOLOv3-tiny model (Fu et al., 2021). Based
on                                               the characteristics of kiwifruit images, two 
convolutional kernels of
3 × 3 and 1 × 1 were added to the fifth and sixth convolution layers of
the YOLOv3-tiny model, respectively, to develop a deep YOLOv3-tiny

(DY3TNet) model. It takes multiple 1 × 1 convolutional layers in
intermediate layers of the network to reduce the computational

complexity. Testing images captured from day and night and compared
with                                              other deep learning models, namely, Faster R-CNN 
with ZFNet,
Faster R-CNN with VGG16, YOLOv2, and YOLOv3-tiny with DY3TNet
models achieved the highest average precision of 0.9005 with the
smallest data weight of 27 MB. Furthermore, it took only 34 ms on

average to process an image of a resolution of 2352 × 1568 pixels. The


DY3TNet model, along with the YOLOv3-tiny model, showed better
performance on images captured with flash than those without.

Moreover, the experiments indicated that the image augmentation

process could improve the detection performance, and a simple lighting
arrangement could improve the success rate of detection in the

orchard. The experimental results demonstrated that the improved
DY3TNet                                           model was smaller and efficient and it could 
increase the
applicability of real-time kiwifruit detection in the orchard even

through small hardware devices were used.

Deep learning has achieved kiwifruit detection with high accuracy
and fast speed. However, all the kiwifruits have been labeled and

detected as only one class in most researches for robotic fruit picking,
where fruits occluded by branches or wires have been detected as
pickable targets. End-effectors or robots may be damaged by the
branches or wires when they are forced to pick those fruits. Therefore,
kiwifruits are labeled, trained, and detected in multi-classes based on

their occlusions to avoid detecting fruits occluded by branches or wires
as                                             pickable targets (Suo et al., 2021). Fruits are 
classified into four

classes and five classes according to robotic picking strategy and field
occlusions, respectively. Well-known YOLOv3 and recently released

YOLOv4 are employed to do transfer learning for multi-classes kiwifruit
detection. Results show that mAP (mean average precision) of fruits in
the five-classes was higher than that in the four-classes, while mAP of
YOLOv4 was higher than YOLOv3.

14.3 Nondestructive Picking of Fruit

Fruit nondestructive picking is the other the key technologies of

developing picking robot. Firstly, based on the artificial way of kiwifruit
picking                                                and the biology characteristics of kiwifruit 
stem, a fruit picking
method for robot was proposed, which need to separate the fruit from
stem and hold the fruit to prevent it dropping. Then, the picking
method was verified by a special designed separation test of fruit and
its stem. After that, an end-effector was designed and manufactured
based on the fruit picking method, which approached a fruit from the
bottom, and enveloped and grabbed the fruit from two sides, and then


rotated up to separate the fruit from stem (Fu et al., 2015). In the end,
the performance of end-effector prototype was tested on the most

common cultivar “Hayward” at the Meixian Kiwifruit Experimental
Station                                              of Northwest A&F University. The results 
showed that the

proposed picking method could separate the fruit successfully with the
least force of 1.3 N when the angle between fruit and stem was set as

60°, which is not significantly different from the manual picking of
which the angle between fruit and stem is approximately to 90° in

normal. The end-effector was tested on 68 samples (28 in the morning,
25                                                 in the noon, and 15 in the night). All of them 
were successfully
picked and held by the end-effector. Among them, two samples were
picked with stem which might be caused by the reason of that the fruit
is not ripe enough to be harvested. All the picked fruit were free of
damage until ripen for eating. In all, the end-effector could effectively
solve the problems of separating the adjacent fruits, grab a single fruit
with an accuracy of 100%, and pick and hold it nondestructively.

14.4 Kiwifruit Picking Robot

The above two key technologies were integrated with a tracked trolley,
robot                                               arm, fruit convey tube, and control system to 
develop a kiwifruit
picking robot, which can pick a fruit with 2 s. It can be improved by
adding more arms and end-effectors and working long hours, although
it is slow than human picking. Another study has been conducted to
investigate the drop distance of kiwifruit from the end-effector to

container without fruit damage (Wu et al., 2022) (Figs. 14.1 and 14.2).



Fig. 14.1 Kiwifruit detected as five classes by YOLOv4 based on occlusion
types

Fig. 14.2 Developed kiwifruit picking robot

14.5 Conclusions

Open field autonomous robots have been advanced tremendously with
the                                              GNSS application for wase multiple satellite 
operations. In addition
to Lidar brings the further application ease for obstacle avoidances.

However, the orchard automation still requires significant attention to
bring it in the field levels. There are significant scopes opened with the


development of deep learning and AI application that over common
conventional image processing shortcomings. This research efforts
shows deep learning based light model can be used for orchard
application picking of harvesting robots.

References

Fu, L., Zhang, F., Gejima, Y., Li, Z., Wang, B., & Cui, Y. (2015). Development and
experiment of end-effector for kiwifruit harvesting robot. Transactions of
Chinese Society for Agricultural Machinery, 46(3), 1–8.

Fu, L., Feng, Y., Jingzhu, W., Liu, Z., Gao, F., Majeed, Y., Al-Mallahi, A., Zhang, Q.,
Li, R., & Cui, Y. (2021). Fast and accurate detection of kiwifruit in orchard using
improved YOLOv3-tiny model. Precision Agriculture, 22(3), 754–776.

[Crossref]

Suo, R., Gao, F., Zhou, Z., Longsheng, F., Song, Z., Dhupia, J., Li, R., & Cui, Y.
(2021). Improved multi-classes kiwifruit detection in orchard to avoid
collisions during robotic picking. Computers and Electronics in Agriculture, 182,
106052.

[Crossref]

Wu, Z., Li, G., Yang, R., Longsheng, F., Li, R., & Wang, S. (2022). Coefficient of
restitution of kiwifruit without external interference. Journal of Food

Engineering, 327, 111060.
[Crossref]


© The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd. 2023

T. Ahamed (ed.), IoT and AI in Agriculture

https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-19-8113-5_15

15. Low-Cost Automatic Machinery Development to Increase
Timeliness and Efficiency of Operation for Small-Scale
Farmers    to Achieve SDGs

Arkar Minn¹, ² and Tofael Ahamed³

(1) Graduate School of Science and Technology, University of Tsukuba, Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan

(2) Department of Agricultural Engineering, Yezin Agricultural University, 15013, Nay Pyi Taw,

Myanmar

(3) Faculty of Life & Environmental Sciences, University of Tsukuba, Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan

Tofael Ahamed

Email: tofael.ahamed.gp@u.tsukuba.ac.jp

Abstract

Sustainable development goals (SDGs) aim to increase productivity and utilization of resources in
the agricultural sector. However, the agricultural sector is currently confronted with the effects 
of
climate change and workforce shortages. The population has risen such that food security has
become vital. Furthermore, the global agriculture industry is struggling with issues such as labor
and farmer scarcity as well as rising labor costs. To bring a solution to this current trend, the

problems of agricultural labor forces, automation, sensor advancements, artificial intelligence,
and IoT that can support more young farmers are highly required. The innovations and
implementation of advanced machinery can be stratified based on regional demand and
population engagement in the agriculture sector both in developed and developing nations. There
are  six degrees of mechanization and automation are significant noted: Level 0 refers to no

automation, Level 1 is assistance in automation, Level 2 outlines partial automation, Level 3 is

conditional automation, Level 4 is high automation, and Level 5 is full automation considering the
sensing system lateral and longitudinal control of machinery. Therefore, the purpose of this

chapter is to discuss the application levels of mechanization to support labor shortages and
increase productivity in developed and developing countries. This article solely describes the
current trend in agricultural machinery adoption and the levels of mechanization that can be

recommended for appropriateness globally. In addition to level selection, this article introduces
sensors and transformation stages with low-cost automation, specifically shifting toward

autonomous machinery development in the future spectrum.

Keywords SDG – Automation – Farm machinery – Low-cost – Small-scale farm machinery –
Sensor – Sustainable agriculture – Smart farming – Precision agriculture – Transformation to
automation

15.1 Introduction

The agricultural sector is currently confronted with the effects of climate change and workforce
shortages. Climate change has a direct impact on food productivity. The population has risen such


that food security has become vital. Furthermore, the global agriculture industry is struggling
with issues such as labor and farmer scarcity as well as rising labor costs. Between 1950 and

2000, the number of family farm laborers in the USA fell by 7.60 to 2.06 million, while the number
of hired farm employees fell by 2.33 to 1.13 million (Tassell, 2022). Between 2005 and 2020, the
number of agricultural workers in EU-N13 fell by 13 million to 7 million (EC, 2017). In Japan, the
total number of people employed in agriculture decreased by 2.42 million to 2.08 million between
2009 and 2015, with the 65+ age group making up 48% of the agricultural labor force (Statistic

Bureu of Japan, 2016). The agricultural labor force has considerably declined in other Asian

nations, such as China, India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Thailand, Indonesia, Malaysia, and Myanmar.
To bring a solution to this current trend in agricultural labor forces, automation, advancements in
sensors, artificial intelligence, and IoT can support and motivate more young farmers and

entrepreneurs. Aryal et al. (2021) state that farm mechanization has the potential to increase the
income of agricultural households, improve food security, and reduce poverty, thereby

contributing to the fulfillment of the SDGs. Automation of farm machinery has become

increasingly important. For example, rice transplantation in wetlands has become difficult due to
the climate and frequent interruption of rainfall. Labor transformation to industry also makes a
difficult point for transplanting, broadcasting, and harvesting at the peak agricultural season.

Hence, farmers prefer to use machines with semi automation or partial automation because

automation is reliable and precise and increases the timeliness and efficiency of their operations.

Additionally, due to the increase in labor cost and plant disease factors, farmers noticed farm
machinery automation, and they wanted to introduce that machine to their business.

Furthermore, field sensing explored the significance of enabling precision farming to maximize
production efficiency with minimum environmental impact. In this regard, there are four major
steps   to adopt the machinery in current agricultural trends with innovation and climate
adaptation. Through these steps, the mechanization needs to incorporate with Big Data and
artificial intelligence, smart IoT, and field sensing. Each nation uses the step differently 
depending
on the availability of technology resources with innovative approaches. In recent trends, small
units of low-cost intelligent/automation systems can utilize and further develop locally with their
technological resources. Therefore, the recent advancement of low-cost automation can help in

the agriculture sector of small-scale farmers.

The innovations and implementation of advanced machinery can be stratified based on

regional demand and population engagement in agriculture in both developed and developing
nations. In addition, challenges of socioeconomic and safety concerns must be considered. With
all these considerations, several potential mechanization levels have been identified as

prospective solutions (Sims & Kienzle, 2017) (FAO, sustainable agricultural mechanization, 2017).

The core concept of the theory of induced innovation is that technical advancement is critical to

enhancing agricultural productivity; thus, it is not exogenous to the development process (Hayami
& Ruttan, 1971). There are six degrees of mechanization and automation that are significant and
are noted as follows: Level 0 refers to no automation, Level 1 is assistance in automation, Level 2
outlines partial automation, Level 3 is conditional automation, Level 4 is high automation, and
Level   5 is full automation considering the sensing system lateral and longitudinal control of
machinery. Therefore, the purpose of this chapter is to discuss the application levels of
mechanization   to support labor shortages and increase productivity in developed and developing
countries. Thus, this article solely describes the current trend in agricultural machinery adoption
that  can be transformed into different levels of mechanization for appropriateness globally.

15.2 Current Agricultural Trends


In the current trend, farm automation has transformed from a higher mechanical to an
autonomous system at different levels through contributions from research institutes and

industries. The automation of farm machinery systems has been developed with several basic
principles to adapt to the implementation.

15.2.1 Control and Navigation System

Navigation systems have been created utilizing navigation sensors. Farm equipment has a
position and a heading, and the sensors can be used to determine the equipment’s posture.

Lateral and longitudinal control of machinery has the major points to control machines in

operation. The position information is the key that enables absolute (global navigation satellite
system, GNSS) and relative positioning (local sensing). The development of GNSSs with higher
accuracy and lower cost makes this score more vibrant across nations.

15.2.2 Vehicle Motion Models

The components of vehicle motion models mainly refer to dead reckoning, kinematic, and
dynamic models for forward and backward motion and turning the vehicles. The vehicle motion
model has significant roles at the different levels of machinery automation.

15.2.3 Navigation Planner

A navigation planer can be used to track location, follow an implement, and drive straight up on
the global or local map. In the planning process, an obstacle avoidance system is also established
based on the reference navigation planner using an advanced sensing system. Inertial navigation
has also been developed based on landmark-based navigation and line navigation to follow the
vehicle on the map.

15.2.4 Steering Controllers

Steering control has significantly improved at different application levels. The steering system

control covers the open loop, proportional integral derivative (PID), and fractional proportional
integral derivative (FPID) controllers, among others that can be used to steer agricultural

vehicles. Trajectory controls have challenges for enabling navigation using Cartesian and polar-
based coordinates.

15.2.5 Field Sensing, Recognition, and Sensor Data Fusion

Vision-based sensors, environment ranging sensors, time-of-flight range sensors, and image
sensors are the main contributing sensors in automation and intelligent control systems. In vision
sensing, line-scan cameras and area-scan cameras, including LiDAR and 3D depth cameras, have
significant applications worldwide. A similar concept of sensor fusion involves processing sensor
data and controlling vehicle movements based on a changing operating environment around the
vehicle and sensor data from a set of sensors with varying degrees of accuracy (Baillie et al.,

2018). Increased production is currently required to make automated robotic systems (ARS)
economically justifiable and to enable their use at the commercial-scale level (Goense, 2005).

Satisfactory performance of ARS within unstructured environments requires that both

productivity and work quality are significantly higher than with conventional methods and
equipment, including semiautomated systems (Bechar & Vigneault, 2016). Variable-rate

technology (VRT) is the system most expected to reduce agricultural inputs such as chemical
fertilizers, pesticides, herbicides, irrigation water, and precision placements of seeds.

15.2.6 Variable-Rate Technologies


VRTs are new technologies for determining nonuniform farm inputs, such as seeds, fertilizers, and
pesticides, to be applied at different rates across a field, without manually changing rate settings
on equipment or having to make multiple passes over an area. The VRT is one of the three most

common components for site-specific crop management (SSCM). The equipment used to perform
variable-rate applications is commonly called variable-rate technology or VRT (Ahamed et al.,

2014). There are two types of VRT: GPS-based systems and local sensor-based systems. A GPS-
based system is a map-based system and historic approach. A local sensor-based system is a real-
time system, and no maps are needed. A map-based system (GPS-based) can be adjusted with the
application rate based on an electronic map of field properties. Another type is referred to as 
local
sensor-based systems, which use real-time sensors to perform on-the-go measurements and then
control  the input in the same path. There are advantages and disadvantages between map-based
and local sensor-based systems (Fig. 15.1). Modern farm machinery, such as sprayers and

spreaders, have VRT-capable machinery. Most of the time, it is possible to modify current
machinery and equipment. Most tractor navigation systems can be integrated with VRA map
reading and signal control abilities for site-specific control of agricultural inputs.

Fig. 15.1 Comparison of map-based and local sensor-based systems in VRT

15.2.7 Communication Protocols

The controller area network (CAN) bus communication protocol based on ISOBUS systems has
the advantages of configuring machinery and implements from a wide range of dealers and
manufacturers. ISOBUS is an international communication protocol that sets the standard for
agriculture electronics. Farm equipment manufacturers decided on ISOBUS as the common
protocol for electronic communication between tools, tractors, and computers under the

International Standards Organization (ISO). It can communicate between sensors, actuators, and
controllers, facilitating this standard to switch data between tractors, implements and onboard

controllers. Currently, ISOBUS-compatible implements are available in the farm machinery
market. Through standardized ISOBUS components, it is intended to provide plug-and-play

functionality for every combination, enabling the machine to control any device or application.
The ISOBUS universal protocol has several simplification benefits with a display that interacts
with multiple implements and machines. In addition to simplicity, the user-friendly control


setting reduces downtime and minimizes installation and interface issues. Easy connections with
the standardized connector between different components and automation can be performed
with the ISOBUS system to increase the efficiency and reduce fatigue of the operator.

Therefore, farm mechanization has the scope of considering the abovementioned controllers,
sensors, and navigation planners for guiding agricultural vehicles to address labor shortages in a
different scheme based on the requirements for each country. This scope can be outlined with
different levels of mechanization starting from Level 0 to Level 5 (SAE, 2021) (Fig. 15.2).

Fig. 15.2 Levels of automation referring to machinery control, lateral control, and navigation 
planning

15.3 Levels of Automation in Farm Machinery

The development of Level 0, Level 1, and Level 2 automation in small-scale farm machinery are
emphasized considering low-cost autonomous machinery development. Levels 3, 4, and 5 of
automation are focused on medium- to large-scale farm machinery automation systems. The

following sections discuss levels 0–5 in more detail with the transformation potentials.

15.3.1 Level 0: No Automation

Most farm tasks are carried out by humans at the Level 0 stage. This level is still present in
developing countries. Farmers used utility tractors with a simple hydraulic system, a mini-tiller,

and a power tiller. Small-scale farm machinery with a small single-cylinder engine is the primary
power source. The transformation is also required to automate the small-scale machinery starting
with the power tiller, specifically riding types. Sophistication in automation can be performed for
the power tiller with some consideration of low-cost actuators, sensors and GNSS systems. One of
the examples of transformation and its recommendations to use low-cost equipment for

automation on power tillers is described.

15.3.1.1 Transformation of Automation on a Power Tiller

Most developing countries in Asia use power tillers extensively in their food production. The
advantages of a power tiller include its low cost, lightweight, ease of maintenance and repair, and
simplicity of operation. However, it also has drawbacks, including mass vibration, pollution, and
risky operation. When using a power tiller, farmers need to pay close attention. The following
suggestions are added to modify the ordinary power tiller (Fig. 15.3) with automation.


Fig. 15.3 Automated power tiller

Main clutch lever  All moving parts of the power tiller are controlled by the main clutch. The

operator can control it manually with the main clutch lever. For the automation assistance, it can
be replaced by an electric linear actuator or a servo motor with a controller.

Steering mechanism  Steering is manually controlled by side clutch levers; it can be replaced by
two electric linear actuators.

Engine stop mode  The engine stop mode can be transformed with a servo motor. For the petrol
engine, a servo motor can be used to operate the engine switch to turn on and off, and for the
diesel engine, a servo motor can operate the fuel valve.

Implement mode  The implement mode can be attached to the power tiller for the tillage and
driving operations. An electric linear actuator can raise and lower the implement

programmability.

Vision control  Low-cost RGB, 3D depth camera or LiDAR can serve as the vision of the power
tiller. Object detection and obstacle avoidance can be performed by the program.

Monitoring  The radio transmitter module, Wi-Fi module or Bluetooth module has the

opportunity to perform as the mobile control unit of the operator. The operator can contact the
machine stages via mobile devices such as smartphones, tablets, and computers. Sensors can be
used for machine stages such as fuel level and engine temperature.

Machine Control mode  The operator can control the power tiller via a joystick controller. A
microcontroller-based control system can be used as a remote-control system over a wireless
platform.

Power source  All electric and electronic devices obtain power from the battery, and the battery
can be recharged from the alternator.

15.3.2 Level 1: Assisted Automation

In the Level 1 stage, farmers use utility tractors with hydraulic control systems. In rice 
cultivation,
an ordinary rice transplanter with a mechanical function is used. In harvesting operations,

threshers are also widely used. One of the examples of transformation and its recommendations
to use the low-cost equipment for automation on the seed broadcaster are referred to in the

following section.


15.3.2.1 Transformation of Automation for Seed/Fertilizer Broadcasting Device

Most seed and fertilizer broadcasting operations are performed with tractor-mounted

broadcasters/spreaders. Precision broadcasters are now available in the market, but they are not
affordable for small-scale farmers. There are two types of broadcasters: centrifugal disk type and
pendulum type. The farmers most commonly used centrifugal-type fertilizer spreaders due to

their robustness, simplicity, low cost, and large working widths (Antille et al., 2015; Villette et 
al.,
2017). For the development of automation for centrifugal spreaders at the small-scale level, some
of the sensors and attachments can be installed for semi-autonomous or autonomous vehicles

(Fig. 15.4). The following suggestions are added to set up the spreader with automation.

Fig. 15.4 Small-scale multi-crop seed broadcasting machine (a) CAD design (b) Prototype fabrication

Embedded system-based design  A microcontroller serves as the operator (Harmanda et al.,
2019). The programmer can set up the operation procedures for the specific operations. The
microcontroller receives data from the sensors and computes and makes a decision using the

program. Currently, low-cost high-technology microcontrollers are available, such as Arduino.

Substitution with electric devices  Former control systems were made by mechanical control
systems such as linkage and lever. Electric devices and attachments can replace the mechanical
system, as they have more benefits, such as lightweight, quietness, and precision. Some electric
devices are electric linear actuators, servo motors, stepper motors, and rotary encoders.

Adjustable opener design  A programmable opening system can reduce the waste of

seed/fertilizer, save usage, maintain a constant rate, and select the material dosage. Moreover, it
can be programmed according to crop types such as paddy, wheat, maize, and pulses.

Headland control system  The programmable control system of the broadcasting mechanism has
the scope of effectiveness at the headland in the field. It can save the seed and equal the
distribution pattern. This program is arranged by the RTK GPS (real-time kinematic global
positioning system) and optical sensor (Camera, LiDAR).

Narrow space adjustment  Narrow space adjustment can be arranged by the diffusing
mechanism. The diffuser can be attached to the broadcasting outlet of the device so that the seed
will  not spread away from the spreading pattern. This adjustment is effective, saves the seed, and
avoids spreading outside of the pattern.

Environment sensing  This arrangement is set up by the sensors and IoT-based programs, such as
methodological data from weather stations, for real-time environment operation. In broadcasting
operations, the prevailing wind is the main obstacle to operation in the fields. If the program


obtains weather data (wind speed and direction), the program can arrange the motor speed of the
spreading mechanism. This arrangement has the advantage of saving the seed and equal
distribution patterns in the field.

15.3.3 Level-2: Partial Automation

In the Level-2 stage, the prime mover is the utility tractor with an electronic control system. The
hydraulic position control system is attached to the rice transplanter. Combine harvesters became
popular in this stage. Few examples of transformation and its recommendations to use the low-

cost equipment for automation for partial automation are described.

15.3.3.1 Transformation of Partial Automation

Hydraulic systems have been developed in agricultural tractors. Most utility tractors have
auxiliary hydraulic hoses to control the rear attached implements in operation. With the
assistance of an auxiliary hydraulic system, farmers can handle multiple implements in single

operations (for example, tandem/gang arrangement of the implements) and can achieve a wide
range of tillage. Additionally, hydraulic pump technology was developed and has resulted in less
occupation of pump fitting and more power in controlling implementation.

Hydrostatic transmission (HST) allows a vehicle to convert mechanical energy into hydraulic
power and then back to mechanical energy. HST technology has been developed in agricultural
machinery so that farmers can operate their work without worrying about machine slippage and
digging in the mud. Crawler tractors, some combine harvesters that work in muddy fields and
farm multipurpose carriers are fitted with HST drives (Fig. 15.5).

Fig. 15.5 (a) HST drive fitted on a combine harvester (b) HST drive system for crawler or wheel

15.3.4 Level 3: Conditional Automation

Technology plays an important role in the development of the crop production sector and has the
potential key drivers of sustainable agriculture. Recently, new sensors have been developed with
less weight and size, low cost, and high performance. Sensors can be applied and combined in
production systems, accepting an increase in data and ultimately increases in information. This

technology is of great importance for supporting digital transformation, precision agriculture, and
smart farming to obtain high productivity and maintain sustainable agriculture. In the Level-3
stage, sensing technology and a global positioning system (GPS) have been developed. Most of the
implements are fitted with sensors for controlling and monitoring operations. An autosteering
system was developed with the aid of sensors and navigation systems.

15.3.4.1 Transformation of Conditional Automation


A real-time kinematic (RTK) GNSS system was developed for farm vehicle navigation, and RTK-
GNSS provides precise accuracy of the vehicle location so that farmers can operate with hands-

free steering and take control of the operations tasks. Moreover, machine data such as vehicle

location and task information can be shared with others to improve operational performance and
can perform precision agriculture. In recent years, low-cost RTK-GNSS has independently

developed. Furthermore, a hybrid navigation system with a combination of inertial measurement
units (IMUs) and GNSSs has also been introduced (Rinnan et al., 2009). This system is not only

easy to switch between agricultural machines, but IMU can also be placed in the vicinity of the
GNSS antenna to obtain a more accurate position, and direction calculation can be performed

(Ahamed et al., 2014). To obtain high accuracy and high-rate positioning, the azimuth detection
method improved the accuracy of agricultural work even in irregular fields and made it a high-
speed output navigation sensor. Based on hybrid navigation that takes advantage of GNSS and
IMU, by utilizing machine information (vehicle speed and steering angle of this machine, traveling
condition of this machine generated from map information). This operation can perform unique
optimum calculations according to each driving condition (Fig. 15.6). Achieving high-rate

detection and high accuracy positioning (within 3 cm) and azimuth angle (within 1°) with various
operation patterns, including turning, completes the navigation sensor suitable for automatic
agricultural machine travel (Ahamed et al., 2014).

Fig. 15.6 Tractor navigation system with IMU+RTK-GNSS

15.3.5 Level 4: High Automation

Level 4 is sensing and IoT-based farm machinery development. Farmers can access their

operations through mobile devices. Electromechanical drives became popular in this stage. A

critical labor shortage threatens the ability of farmers to produce and harvest their crops. Migrant
labor availability is subject to political forces outside of the power of the agricultural 
community.

However, farmers are taking proactive steps to address this issue. They are teaming with

technology companies to develop new automated harvesting technologies and more. There are
three main technologies in future trends of automatic farm machinery: electrification,

automation, and artificial intelligence (Fig. 15.7). Some of the examples described include
electrification, automation, artificial intelligence and IoT-based components.


Fig. 15.7 Transformation at the level of high automation

15.3.5.1 Transformation of Automation for Machinery

Electrification  Most agricultural equipment, such as prime movers, are widely used internal
combustion engines as power sources. Currently, fossil fuel has been decreasing in production,

and engines release carbon dioxide. Well-known manufacturers have also changed the trend to
use other energy sources, such as electrification. In farm machinery operations, electrification
uses batteries as a power source. Batteries connect electrical drives such as electric motors that
have heavy torque at low speeds, are more powerful, are more reliable, have lower noise, are

lightweight, and are compact so that motors can replace engines and hydraulics. Another
advantage of using electrification is zero emissions.

Automation  Currently, many well-known manufacturers are producing autonomous prime
movers. The autonomous prime mover makes real-time automatic adjustments in farming

operations. Some autonomous prime movers use electric drives so that they help to reduce soil

compaction more than conventional prime movers. An electric drive has no operation emissions,
low noise, and low wear and maintenance costs. In power transmission technology, John Deere
Co. changed their new tractor in conventional continuously variable transmission (CVT) to

electromechanical power split (Deere, n.d.).

Artificial intelligence (AI)  Based on sensors and artificial intelligence, the system recognizes 
the
difference between the desired work and environment to operate individual tasks. There are
many methods for using artificial intelligence, such as machine learning, deep learning, and

neural networks. Currently, this technology is used in farming operations not only in land
preparation operations but also in soil management, crop management, plant disease
management, and weed management. Moreover, postharvest and food processing operations
have   also used this technology.

15.3.6 Level 5: Full Automation

In the Level 5 stage, all farm machinery operations consider the full autonomy including remote
operations (Fig. 15.8). Autonomous machines and intelligent systems are the core things of the
stage.


Fig. 15.8 Full automation

15.3.6.1 Transformation of Automation Systems

Some perspectives of small-scale autonomous farming vehicles and equipment are as follows. In
the small-scale unit, Fendt from the AGCO company produced the Fendt Xaver sowing robot. That
robot can operate precision planting, and it is a fully autonomous vehicle. The Xaver company
intends to install a sowing robot with sensors for soil moisture measurements, temperature,
humidity, and plant residues in the future (Fendt Xaver, 2020). Global unmanned spray system

(GUSS) sprayers can be remotely supervised by a single operator, allowing growers to spray

orchards and vineyards more quickly and consistently, using fewer resources and reducing costs
by eliminating operator error and downtime (Oitzman, 2022). The machines also control
application rates and sprayer speeds across entire fields and in variable terrain with adjustable
software parameters (Deere, n.d.). AutoSpraySystems produced an R150 sprayer and attached the
JetSprayer™ airflow sprayer system. This machine is small-scale, autonomous, and all-in-electric
drives (AutoSpraySystems, n.d.).

Autonomous performance on rice transplanters has been developed by Japanese
manufacturers such as Kubota and Yanmar. Yanmar produced the YR8D model, and Kubota
produced the Agri Robo Rice Transplanter. Kubota has developed automation on rice

transplanters but still needs to be operated under human supervision. Kubota expects to develop
a completely unmanned operation of the machine in the future. Yanmar launched the YR8D series
rice transplanter commercially in 2019, and the rice transplanter also needs to be performed
under the guidance of people. Yanmar announced that to create sustainable agriculture, they

intend to continue to develop autonomous technology and incorporate it into an array of products
and services.

Self-propelled multi-function machine is a complete set of an implementation of the

operations. It can perform tillage, seeding, inter-weeding, spraying, and harvesting operations in a
single unit. However, this type of machine has a very complicated system and high cost. This type
of machine has significant potential for future development. Autonomous tractors are operator-


less tractors that use sensors and perception technology to provide higher effectiveness and
reduce human interference. Future research and development need to align with performance

monitoring that extends to general-purpose tractor operations (Baillie et al., 2018). In many parts
of the world’s agricultural sector, there is a constant challenge of skill labor finding during the
peak use seasons. Thus, automation and sensing technology can solve this problem. Large
manufacturers are researching autonomous tractors and their operations. There are two types of
autonomous tractors in agriculture: upgrading automation on existing tractors (engine type) and
electric vehicles (electric type). Some of the autonomous tractors and their manufacturers series
up  to 2022 (Table 15.1). Furthermore, according to the land preparation to harvest task referring
to Level 0 to Level 5, summarized information provides present trends and future development
potentials (Table 15.2).

Table 15.1 Autonomous tractor listed in 2022

Sr. Manufacturer  Model                    Power type   Automation level

1  John Deere    8R Tractor                  Engine type   Fully autonomous

2  CASE iH      ACV                      Engine type   Fully autonomous

3  New Holland   NHDrive Concept Autonomous Tractor    Engine type  Fully autonomous

4  Massey Ferguson MF NEXT Concept Tractor          Engine type   Fully autonomous

5  ClASS       AgBot                     Engine type   Fully autonomous

6  Fendt      FendtX concept                Engine-electric Semi-autonomous

Fendt      Fendt e100 Vario               Electric type  Semi-autonomous

7 Yanmar    Concept tractor YT01          Engine type  Fully autonomous
Robot Tractor (YT488A/498A/4104A/5113A) Engine type  Fully autonomous

8  Kubota     Kubota Concept Tractor          Electric type  Fully autonomous
AgriRobo Tractor             Engine type  Fully autonomous

Table 15.2 Summary of the level of automation in farm machinery

Task           Level 1

Level 0        Level 1    Level 2        Level 3    Level 4    Level 5


Land preparation

No Automation

Utility Tractor

– Manual hydraulic
system

Assisted
Automation

Utility
Tractor

–

Hydraulic
control
system

Partial Automation

Utility Tractor

– Electronic
control system

– GPS

– Auto-hinged
system

Conditional
Automation

Utility
Tractor

– Sensor-
aided

– Semi-
auto steering

– Cab
control

High
Automation

Utility
Tractor

– Sensor-
aided

– IoT-based
control

– Electro-
mechanical
drive

Full
Automation

Autonomous
Tractor


Planting/Sowing/Fertilizer Seed drill

Seed drill

Seed drill

Seed drill

Seed drill

Autonomous


application

– Manual control
(Tractor-drawn)

–

Mechanical
function
(Tractor-
drawn)

–

Hydraulic/Pneumatic
Control (Tractor-
drawn)

– Sensor-
aided

–

Computerized

seeder


Task

Level 1

Level 0        Level 1    Level 2        Level 3    Level 4    Level 5


No Automation

Planter

Assisted
Automation

Planter
–

Mechanical
function
(Tractor-
drawn)

Partial Automation

Planter
–

Hydraulic/Pneumatic
Control (Tractor-
drawn)

Conditional
Automation

– Auto-
select
function
(Tractor-
drawn)

Planter

– Sensor-
aided

– Auto-
select
function
(Tractor-
drawn)

High
Automation

– IoT based
(Tractor-
drawn)

Planter
–

Computerized

– IoT based
(Tractor-
drawn)

Full
Automation

Autonomous
Planter


Broadcaster/spreader Broadcaster

–

Mechanical
function
(Tractor-
drawn)

Broadcaster
–

Hydraulic/Pneumatic

Control (Tractor-
drawn)

Broadcaster
– Sensor-

aided

– Auto-
select
function
(Tractor-
drawn)

Broadcaster
–

Computerized

– IoT based
(Tractor-
drawn)

Autonomous
Broadcaster

Broadcasting Broadcasting Broadcasting


Weeding/Interculture

Crop Protection

Manual Transplanting

Utility Tractor

Boom Sprayer
(Tractor-drawn)

Speed Sprayer

– Mechanical
control

Rice
Transplanter

–

Mechanical
control

Utility
Tractor

Utility
Tractor

Speed
Sprayer

–

Electrical
control

Rice Transplanter
– Hydraulic

Position control

Utility Tractor

Utility Tractor
Speed Sprayer

– Electronics
control

Drone

–

Operator-
assisted

Rice
Transplanter

– Sensor-
aided

Utility
Tractor

Utility
Tractor

Speed
Sprayer

– Sensor
assisted

Drone

– Path-
planning

Rice
Transplanter

– GPS

– Auto-
steering

Semi-
Autonomous
Weeder

Utility
Tractor

Speed
Sprayer

– Semi-
autonomous

Drone

–

Intelligence
system

–   IoT

based

Autonomous
Rice
Transplanter

Autonomous
Weeder

Autonomous
Tractor

Autonomous
Speed
Sprayer


Task

Level 1

Level 0        Level 1    Level 2        Level 3    Level 4    Level 5


Harvesting/Threshing

No Automation

– Reaper

– Thresher

– Mower

– Cutter/Chop-per

Assisted
Automation

– Baler

– Combine
harvester

Partial Automation

Combine harvester

– GPS

– Sensor-aided

Conditional
Automation

Drone
Sprayer

–

Operator-
assisted

Combine
harvester

– Sensor-
aided

– Data
Access via
network

High
Automation

Drone
Sprayer

– Path-
planning

Semi-
Autonomous
Combine
harvester

– IoT based
control

Full
Automation

Drone
Sprayer

–

Intelligence
system

–   IoT

based

Autonomous
Combine
harvester

15.4 Discussion

The levels of mechanization are solely dependent on different countries’ present needs and the
social status of labor shortages. In referring to the several levels, smart farming came up from
Level 2 or onward with the application of different sensors. Smart denotes sustainable
mechanization and adaptation through resilient techniques. In smart farming, farms that are
managed    by information and communication technologies are used to increase the quantity and
quality of products while optimizing the human labor needed. In the conversion of conventional
farming to smart farming, we need to convert analogical or mechanical technology to digital data
and information acquisition. In addition, smart farming provides benefits in the focus areas for
site-specific management to ensure productivity. The productivity of agricultural machinery
significantly increases through automation due to increased efficiency, reliability, and precision
and    a reduced need for human mediation (Burks et al., 2005; Schueller, 2014). Therefore,

efficiency adopts new ideas to farm smarter. Performance is measured by capturing farm data and
investing in precision agriculture (right source, right rate, right place, and right time) (Baillie 
et
al., 2017). Finally, profitability can be achieved by strategically choosing crops and markets.

The potential for efficiency advantages from more precise tractor control as well as the time-
consuming, systematic nature of machine operations are two factors driving the relatively
advanced state of autonomous vehicle technology in agriculture (Bechar and Vigneault, 2016).

With automation, manufacturers and farmers want to address many issues. The majority of

products on the market are large-scale sizes since manufacturers desire to produce their goods in
enormous quantities (Baillie et al., 2018). However, small-scale farmers, particularly those in
developing nations, require automated small-scale machinery. Currently, sensor and sensing

technology has improved rapidly, and low-cost high-precision sensors are available on the
market. In farm machinery operations, farmers can utilize sensors in various types of
applications. There are machine control applications, crop and soil monitoring applications,
seeding, and harvesting applications. Sensor utilization in the agricultural vehicle automation
system is shown in Fig. 15.9.


Fig. 15.9 Agricultural vehicle automation system

Particularly in developing countries, most farmers work on small plots of land, and they rely
heavily on automation development in small-scale farming equipment. Commonly, they utilized
small-scale farming equipment such as power tillers and garden tractors. Power tillers are among
the machines that are commonly employed for both land preparation and prime moving tasks
such as transport, threshing, and water lifting in many developing countries.

Small-scale farmers, especially in developing countries, face challenges in transforming from
conventional farming to smart farming. They do not have experience in assessing components,
device design, sensor calibrations, and expertise in the case of data transmission. Most of the
farmers are in poor connectivity environments with high transmission costs, making it difficult to
obtain equal data access and processing measurements for feedback in data storage and analysis.
Furthermore, there is a lack of feedback and implementation: there is a lack of assessment in
smartphones, remote locations with mobile devices, and IoT generation of their countries’
situations.

15.5 Conclusion

The development of the automation of farm machinery for small-scale farmers is very important
because the agriculture sector faces problems with cultivation areas, increasing populations, and
addressing the challenges of climate change and labor shortages. Therefore, the sustainability of
automation related to farm machinery and its level of implication is a prominent point for

increasing productivity. Most manufacturers are intended not only to develop the automation of
agriculture but also to practice sustainable agriculture. Automation machinery has advantages
and can outline through Level 0–5 mechanization stages for transformation. Additionally, future
automation has the chance to shift manual labor that currently necessitates a large number of
workers in different production field and food industries. Automating farm equipment relieves

laborious tasks and paves the way for more sustainable food production.


In conclusion, developing countries should start transforming automation on their small-scale
farm machinery to Level 2 because most of the developing countries are still at Level 0 and/or
Level 1. Transforming the automation of their existing small-scale farm machinery will increase

the timeliness and efficiency of their farming operations. Furthermore, transforming automation
enhances the benefits: increased productivity, reduced injury, time and cost savings, solved labor
shortage problems, and improved sustainability and food safety. The transformation of low-cost
automation systems on small-scale farm machinery can significantly ensure SDG goal-2: end
hunger, achieve food security and improve nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture, goal-9:
build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable industrialization and foster
innovation, and goal-10: reduce inequality within and among countries.

References

Ahamed, T., Takigawa, T., Noguchi, R., & Tian, L. (2014). Bioproduction engineering: A road map for 
sustainable
agricultural practices. Nova Science Publishers. ISBN: 978-1-62618-122-9.

Antille, D. L., Gallar, L., Miller, P. C., & Godwin, R. J. (2015). An investigation into the 
fertilizerparticle
dynamics off-the-disc. Applied Engineering in Agriculture, 31(1), 49–60. 
https://doi.org/10.13031/aea.31.
10729

[Crossref]

Aryal, J. P., Thapa, G., & Simtowe, F. (2021). Mechanisation of small-scale farms in South Asia: 
Empirical
evidence derived from farm households survey. Technology in Society, 65, 101591. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/
j.techsoc.2021.101591

[Crossref]

Autospraysystems. (n.d.). R150 robot. Retrieved from https://autospraysystems.com/robot-1

Baillie, C., et al. (2017). Developments in autonomous tractors. Retrieved from 
https://grdc.com.au/resources-
and-publications /grdc-update-papers/tab-content/grdc-update-papers/2017/07/developments-in-
autonomous-tractors

Baillie, C., et al. (2018). A review of the state of the art in agricultural automation. A review 
of the state of
the art in agricultural automation. Part III: Agricultural machinery navigation systems. In 2018 
ASABE annual
international meeting (p. 1). American society of agricultural and biological engineers.

Bechar, A., & Vigneault, C. (2016). Agricultural robots for field operations: Concepts and 
components.
Biosystems Engineering, 149, 94–111. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.biosystemseng.2016.06.014
[Crossref]

Burks, T., Villegas, F., Hannan, M., Flood, S., Sivaraman, B., Subramanian, V., & Sikes, J. (2005). 
Engineering
and horticultural aspects of robotic fruit harvesting: Opportunities and constraints. 
HortTechnology, 15(1),
79–87. https://doi.org/10.21273/HORTTECH.15.1.0079

[Crossref]

Deere, J. (n.d.). Future of farming. Retrieved from John Deere: 
https://www.deere.co.uk/en/agriculture/
future-of-farming/

EC (2017). EU agricultural outlook for the agricultural markets and income 2017–2030. European 
commission.
Retrieved from https://agriculture.ec.europa.eu/data-and-analysis/markets/outlook/medium- term_en

FAO. (2017). Retrieved from https://www.fao.org/sustainable-agricultural-mechanization/overview/why-
mechanization-isimportant/en/


Fendt Xaver. (2020). Latest generation of seed sowing robots: The Fendt Saver comes of age. 
Retrieved from
https://www.fendt.com/int/2-fendt-xaver

Goense, D. (2005). The economics of autonomous vehicles in agriculture. In 2005 ASAE annual meeting 
(p.
1). American society of agricultural and biological engineers.

Harmanda, T. T., Hazim, M., Akbar, A. R., Wahjuni, S., & Priandana, K. (2019, July). Development of 
a seed-
planter wheeled robot prototype. In IOP conference series: Earth and environmental science (Vol. 
299, No.
1,  p. 012055). IOP Publishing.

Hayami Y., & Ruttan, V. (1971). Induced innovation in agricultural development (Vol. Discussion 
Paper
No.3). Minneapolis, Minnesota 55455. Retrieved from https://conservancy.umn.edu/bitstream/handle/
11299/54243/1971-03.pdf;sequence=1

Oitzman, M. (2022, April 22). John Deere forms joint venture with GUSS Automation. Retrieved from 
The Robot
Report: https://www.therobotreport.com/john-deere-forms-joint-venture-with-guss-automation/

Rinnan, A., Sigmond, M. E., Robertsen, A., & Gundersen, N. (2009). Qualification of a Hybrid GNSS 
and IMU
Solution. Kongsberg Seatex AS, Trondheim, Norway, DP Conference Houston, p. 19. Retrieved from 
http://
dynamic-positioning.com/proceedings/dp2009/sensors_rinnan.pdf

SAE. (2021). SAE levels of driving automation™ refined for clarity and international audience. 
Society of
automatics engineers international. Retrieved from https://www.sae.org/blog/sae-j3016-update

Schueller, J. K. (2014). Engineering advancements. In automation:The future of weed control in 
cropping
systems (pp. 35–49). Springer. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-94-007-7512-1_3

[Crossref]

Sims, B., & Kienzle, J. (2017). Sustainable agricultural mechanization for smallholders: what is it 
and how
can we implement it? Agriculture, 7(6), 50. https://doi.org/10.3390/agriculture7060050

[Crossref]

Statistics Bureau of Japan. (2016). Japan Statistical Yearbook. Retrieved from 
https://www.stat.go.jp/
english/data/nenkan/65nenkan/index.html

Tassell, L. V. (2022, July 6). Agricultural Economics - University of Nebraska–Lincoln. Retrieved 
from University
of Nebraska–Lincoln. https://agecon.unl.edu/2022-07-06%20Cornhusker%20Econ%20-%20Van%20
Tassell%20-%203.pdf

Villette, S., Piron, E., & Miclet, D. (2017). Hybrid centrifugal spreading model to study the 
fertiliser spatial
distribution and its assessment using the transverse coefficient of variation. Computers and 
Electronics in
Agriculture, 137, 115–129. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.2017.03.023

[Crossref]


© The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd. 2023

T. Ahamed (ed.), IoT and AI in Agriculture

https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-19-8113-5_16

16. Vision-Based Leader Vehicle Trajectory
Tracking                                    for Multiple Agricultural Vehicles

Linhuan Zhang¹, Tofael Ahamed²  , Yan Zhang¹, Pengbo Gao¹ and
Tomohiro Takigawa²

(1) Graduate School of Life and Environmental Sciences, University of

Tsukuba, Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan

(2) Faculty of Life and Environmental Sciences, University of Tsukuba,
Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan

Tofael Ahamed

Email: tofael.ahamed.gp@u.tsukuba.ac.jp

Abstract

The aim of this study was to design a navigation system composed of a
human-controlled leader vehicle and a follower vehicle. The follower
vehicle automatically tracks the leader vehicle. With such a system, a
human driver can control two vehicles efficiently in agricultural

operations. The tracking system was developed for the leader and the
follower vehicle, and control of the follower was performed using a

camera vision system. A stable and accurate monocular vision-based
sensing system was designed, consisting of a camera and rectangular
markers.                                            Noise in the data acquisition was reduced by 
using the least-
squares method. A feedback control algorithm was used to allow the
follower vehicle to track the trajectory of the leader vehicle. A

proportional–integral–derivative (PID) controller was introduced to
maintain the required distance between the leader and the follower
vehicle. Field experiments were conducted to evaluate the sensing and
tracking performances of the leader–follower system while the leader
vehicle was driven at an average speed of 0.3 m/s. In the case of linear


trajectory tracking, the RMS errors were 6.5, 8.9, and 16.4 cm for
straight, turning, and zigzag paths, respectively. Again, for parallel

trajectory tracking, the root mean square (RMS) errors were found to
be 7.1, 14.6, and 14.0 cm for straight, turning and zigzag paths,

respectively. The navigation performances indicated that the

autonomous follower vehicle was able to follow the leader vehicle, and
the                                            tracking accuracy was found to be satisfactory. 
Therefore, the

developed leader–follower system can be implemented for the

harvesting of grains, using a combine as the leader and an unloader as
the autonomous follower vehicle.

Keywords Multiple vehicles – Monocular vision – Quadratic curve
fitting                                              – Trajectory tracking

16.1 Introduction

Multiple autonomous vehicles can improve the efficiency of agricultural
operations by performing labor-intensive tasks such as transporting,
plowing, sowing, fertilizing, spraying, and harvesting (Iida et al., 1999;

Noguchi & Barawid Jr, 2011). The simultaneous control of multiple
robotic vehicles has received attention from several researchers. For

example, multiple moss-harvesting robotic tractors were commanded
and                                          monitored by a human driver, who also functioned as 
the leader
(Johnson et al., 2009). To enable navigation under complex road

conditions, an autonomous follower tractor could change formation
with                                              the human-driven leader tractor to avoid 
obstacles based on

commands from the leader (Zhang et al., 2010). The FOLLOW and
GOTO                                       algorithms were developed to control multiple vehicles 
in a
flexible way, both in formation and independently (Noguchi et al.,

2004). When considering the farming task style, a common operational
method                                                 of multiple autonomous vehicles should be 
effective when an
autonomous or a human-driven leader vehicle can lead one or more

follower vehicles. Furthermore, following a trajectory identical or
parallel to that of the leader is important in outdoor farm conditions.
For example, while driving along a narrow road with obstacles,

followers can adopt an in-line formation with the leader for safety,


whereas while working on farmland, followers in a parallel formation
with                                               the leader could follow trajectories parallel to 
that of the leader,
allowing the farming task to be performed without overlap or missed
areas. For such a target, integrity model involving leader motion

information, such as steering and the speed of the leader, could allow
for                                            precise tracking (Morin et al., 2008; Ou et al., 
2013; Peng et al.,

2014). However, the transmission of the leader motion information to
the follower through a wireless device creates the risk of wireless
distribution or failure. Aiming to solve this problem, the leader’s

position and velocity were estimated based on local sensors (Kise et al.,
2004), and a neural network (NN)-based extended Kalman filter (EKF)
was designed to estimate leader speed and accommodate modeling

errors (Johnson et al., 2004). By cooperating with GPS location, a time-
delayed leader tracking model was established and showed excellent

tracking performance (Goi et al., 2010).

In any event, the follower vehicle needs to continually update its
relative position with respect to the leader to fulfill the tracking task.

Regarding safety, absolute sensors such as those employing GPS are not
suitable for the tracking task because they may lose the satellite signal
and are subject to multipath interference. Local sensors, such as

cameras and laser range finders (LRF), are considered to be better
approaches                                                and have been successfully applied for 
tracking under both
indoor and outdoor conditions (Abe et al., 2005; Ahamed et al., 2006,

2009; Espinosa et al., 2011). Compared with LRFs, camera vision can
provide more information than data obtained via LRF scanning with

less cost and has thus been wildly utilized for navigation, mapping, and
tracking (Caballero et al., 2009; Courbon et al., 2010; Han et al., 2004).
For tracking control of multiple robotic vehicles, a camera vision-based
leader–follower relative position estimating method has been designed,
recognizing a leader vehicle using features of the leader vehicle

(Hasegawa et al., 2000; Kannan et al., 2011). However, this method was
sensitive to lighting conditions and was distance-limited as well as

time-intensive. A common and effective method for solving those
problems was to use an artificial marker to identify the leader and
estimate the leader–follower relative position using pre-known

geometry or color information of the markers (Krajnı́k et al., 2014). The


advantages of the marker-based method are that it could support stable
recognition, accurate position estimation, and fast calculation.

Moreover, it ensures the tracking accuracy and tracking safety for a

leader–follower trajectory tracking system. In this research, to avoid
using                                                GPS and wireless devices, the designed control 
law of the follower
vehicle for leader trajectory tracking only relied on the relative leader–
follower position, which was obtained from the camera vision. This
study aimed to develop a vision-based feedback controller designed to

track a leader vehicle trajectory while maintaining an in-line or parallel
formation. Thus, the objectives of this research were as follows:

1. To establish an autonomous vehicle as a follower vehicle able to
conduct tracking tasks.

2. To construct a robust and accurate monocular vision system able to
estimate the relative position between a leader and a follower.

3. To develop a control algorithm able to realize accurate leader
vehicle                               trajectory-tracking for multiple agricultural machinery
combinations, with a human-driven leader and an autonomous
follower.

16.2 Materials and Methods

An electronic vehicle (CHIKUSUI EJ-20, CANYCOM, Tokyo, Japan) was
modified into an autonomous vehicle, i.e., the follower vehicle. Both the
leader and the follower vehicle had a 60 cm wheel base length and

49 cm drawbar length. Major subsystems of the autonomous vehicle
included                                           steering control, speed control, power, and 
sensor units. The
sensory data and control status were transmitted to an upper level

controller through parallel communication. The basic instrumentation
system for the autonomous vehicle is depicted in Fig. 16.1a. A Pro 9000
Web camera (Logitech, Lausanne, Switzerland) with two million pixels
and                                                  a 70 ˝ view angle, was mounted on the 
autonomous follower

vehicle to provide vision information. A LMS 511 LRF (SICK, Waldkirch,
Germany) was utilized as an assist device to provide reference data and
recorded trajectories during tracking. Steering control of the


autonomous vehicle was conducted using an electronic cylinder

(LPF040L2.0VK2J, TSUBAKIMOTO CHAIN, Osaka, Japan). The length of
the piston rod was 200 mm and the maximum speed was 40 mm/s. It
could provide stable thrust power up to 400 N. Figure 16.1b shows

components of the robot vehicle.


Fig. 16.1  The autonomous follower in the leader–follower system. (a) Sensors
arrangements in the autonomous unit; (b) Hardware components of the
autonomous follower tracking system


16.2.1 Leader–Follower Relative Position and Camera–
Marker Sensing System

Figure 16.2a describes the relative position between the leader and

follower. By identifying the relative heading angle β, relative distance D,
and orientation angle α of the leader relative to the follower, the

follower vehicle could identify the leader position. The leader–follower
relative                                             position was obtained from the camera–marker 
system (Fig.

16.2b), in which the camera was mounted on the rear wheel center
point P₁ of the follower vehicle, the marker was installed perpendicular
to the centerline of the leader vehicle and the position of the middle

square of the marker was at the rear wheel center point P₀. The side

length of each square H and the interval between square centers L were

0.2 and 0.4 m, respectively. In the leader–follower system, the following
steps were followed to develop the relative positioning system: camera
servo systems, marker detection, marker positioning, and estimation of
offset                                               of the roll angle between camera and marker.



Fig. 16.2  Geometrical disposition between the leader and the follower (a)
Leader–follower relative position. (b) Relative position between camera and
marker plane. (c) Servo motor implemented with the camera–marker system

16.2.1.1 Camera Servo System

Losing the target was a severe problem during the tracking of the

leader vehicle; it potentially occurred owing to the limitations of the
camera view field, especially on a large-curvature path. To overcome

this problem, a camera servo system was designed to keep the marker
in                                               the center of the camera view field. The camera 
servo system

comprised a GWS servo motor and a rotary encoder with a camera (Fig.
16.2c). By responding to the angle αs from the middle square center to

the camera optical axis, the servo motor could rotate the camera
directly to the marker center. The rotation angle αEn between the
optical                                           axis and the centerline of the follower vehicle 
could be

monitored by a rotary encoder installed above the camera. The existing
follow relationship can be expressed as:

(16.1)

16.2.1.2 Marker Detection

The marker was detected based on its pre-known geometry

information, including its square shape features and relative spatial
relationship between squares in the marker plane. The image

processing flow comprises the following four steps: transforming an
original RGB image into a grayscale image and then enhancing the

contrast ratio, extracting contours, finding rectangles from the contour
images, and determining the marker (Fig. 16.3).


Fig. 16.3  Image processing for marker detection. (a) Contour image; (b)
Detected marker

Pre-known geometry information could reduce the computational
cost                                             and benefit real-time detection. Additionally, the 
high contrast
ratio between the black squares and the white background enabled the
generation of acutance contours and created stability for the detection
of the marker. However, contour extraction was still influenced by
illumination conditions. Low illumination conditions or strong sunlight
under an outdoor environment would reduce the contrast ratio of the
image and corrode the contour of squares, causing failure of marker
detection. To expand the scope to adapt to various illumination

conditions, a commonly used normal distribution of the image

histogram method was utilized to enhance image contrast. Affected by
posture changes of the vehicles, squares projected on the image plane
would show the shapes of rectangles. Thus, rectangles were recognized
and selected in the contour image. Relying on the relative spatial

relationship between the three squares, false targets with rectangular
shapes,                                               such as rooms and windows, could be filtered, 
and only squares
formed by the marker could be extracted.

16.2.1.3 Marker Positioning

Given that the vision data were obtained from a single camera and the
relative position between the marker and the camera was estimated
based on the known side length of the marker squares, the position of
each square in the marker plane could be described by its center point.


The pitch angle of the vehicle body was neglected, meaning that the
sides                                               of squares in the vertical direction would not 
be affected by the
posture changes of the leader and follower vehicles when projected
onto the image plane. For this reason, the centerline of the squares in
the vertical direction could be used to estimate the relative position
between the camera and marker plane. Utilizing the geometric

relationship between similar triangles under a perspective model (Fig.
16.4), the position of the square center PC in camera-based coordinates
could be estimated as follows:

(16.2)

(16.3)

(16.4)

where the coordinates of the square center under the image coordinate
and                                         camera-based coordinate systems could be written as 
pc(xc, yc, f)
and PC(XC, YC, ZC), respectively. f and fx represent the focal length, and cx
is the shift of the optical axis obtained from camera calibration; h is the
height of squares in the image plane.


Fig. 16.4 Camera perspective model

16.2.1.4 Offset of Roll Angle between Camera and Marker
On                                            uneven farm ground, rolling of the camera or the 
marker plane
would occur and affect the leader–follower relative position

observation accuracy. The calculation of the leader–follower relative

position should offset the rolling effect of the camera or the marker
plane. For example, suppose the leader vehicle is driven on a horizontal
surface, while the follower vehicle forms a roll angle γ around its optical
axis from the horizontal surface (Fig. 16.5). PCN(XCN, YCN, ZCN) are the

coordinates of square centers based on the camera coordinate system
and PHN(XHN, YHN, ZHN) are the coordinates of square centers with

respect to the horizontal surface (Fig. 16.5). Clearly, the position of PCN
represents                                                 the relative position between the camera 
and the marker
plane, and the position PHN represents the relative position between the


follower and the leader vehicles. Thus, the relationship between PCN

and PHN could be written as

(16.5)

(16.6)

Fig. 16.5 Model for offsetting vehicle roll effect

Because the relative position between the leader and the follower
vehicle                                               only corresponds to the X-Z coordinates, the 
square centers can
be assumed to lie on the horizontal surface. Then, Eq. (16.5) can be

rewritten as

(16.7)


(16.8)

where (xcn, ycn) represent coordinates of the square centers pc(xc, yc, f)
in the plane.

16.2.1.5 Transformation of Coordinates and Relative
Positioning of the Marker

The transformation of coordinates between the camera and the
follower vehicle could be expressed as follows (Fig. 16.2c):

(16.9)

(16.10)

where PVN(XVN, YVN) are the coordinates of the square centers in the
follower-based local coordinates. The relative distance D and relative

angle β between the leader and the follower vehicle could be calculated
as:

(16.11)

(16.12)

Then, the relative position between the leader and the follower
vehicle                                           could be written as

(16.13)


(16.14)

(16.15)

where xl_F, yl_F represents the local position of the leader based on the
follower and θl_F is the local heading angle of the leader based on the
follower.

16.2.2 Camera Vision Data Estimation and Smoothing
Limited by the monocular vision method, the observed leader–follower
relative                                          position was noisy under the worst farm 
conditions. In some

cases, large observed errors would occur or there was even a failure to

detect the marker plane. The estimation and smoothing of the

observation data were necessary to ensure the accurate tracking of the
leader vehicle and also to improve the motion stability of the follower
vehicle. Because the motion of the two vehicles was continuous, the
variation of relative distance and angle between the leader and the

follower vehicle was also continuous. The commonly used method of
least-squares was introduced to estimate and smooth the relative

distance D and the relative heading angle β between the leader and the
follower vehicle by fitting a quadratic curve separately. During the

process of data estimation and smoothing, estimated data could be
obtained by fitting the stored latest n points of observation data to a
quadratic curve using the least-squares method. In this study, the
quadratic curve could be written as:

(16.16)

where n denotes observation times used to store and fit the data and
q(n)                                                  is the vector of the stored observation data 
sequence, including the
relative distance and the relative heading angle. q(n) is defined as

(16.17)

To ensure the fitting effect, avoid collapse of the least-squares
method                                            and maintain the original transfer tendency of 
the leader–


follower relative position, the data stored for fitting required
appropriate                                        handling. The estimation and smoothing process 
was

realized through two steps: first, once a new camera observation was
available, the sequence of the stored observation data would be
updated and the latest stored data after updating was temporarily
determined as follows:

(16.18)

(16.19)

(16.20)

Second, after fitting to the quadratic curve using the least-squares
method,                                                the latest stored data and the current 
leader–follower relative
position could be determined as follows:

(16.21)

(16.22)

(16.23)

Where qC _ obs is the vector of the current camera observed data, qFit
is                                                the vector of the fitted current relative 
distance and relative angle
using the stored n times of observation data, qEst is the vector defining
the current relative distance and relative angle, q(i) is the vector of the
stored ith observation, qE _ 1 is the vector of the distance between the

current observation and last observation, qE _ 2 is the vector of the
distance                                           between the current observation and fitted 
observation, and
qTh is the vector of the threshold values, set as (1 m 40°).

16.2.3 Design of Control Law for the Leader Trajectory
Tracking of Follower Vehicle


In this study, only the leader–follower relative position information was
used by the follower vehicle to track the leader trajectory. The absence
of information exchange and absolute reference positions made the

leader trajectory thoroughly uncertain for the follower vehicle, and the
tracking position for the follower vehicle was ambiguous. A feedback

control method based on the leader–follower relative position was
proposed to track the trajectory of the leader.

As described in Fig. 16.6, the required position of the follower

vehicle is set at P₂, with a distance d₀₁ from the leader vehicle rear axis
and                                                 an angle Φ₀₁ with the leader vehicle rear axis. 
Assuming the leader
vehicle is driven with a straight trajectory, the position of P₂ in the

leader-based local coordinates could be written as:

(16.24)


Fig. 16.6  Relationship and coordinate transformation between the leader and
the follower vehicles

To improve the control freedom of the follower vehicle to realize the
tracking of the uncertain leader vehicle trajectory, a control point C,

located on the centerline of the follower vehicle, was introduced.

Moreover, the distance from the rear wheel axial center to the control
point C was defined as

(16.25)


where l the length from the front wheel axial center to the rear wheel
axial                                            center; lC is the length from the rear wheel axial 
center to the

control point C; the parameter k₀ is used to determine the location of

control point C. The position of the control point C in leader-based local
coordinates could be written as:

(16.26)

Combining with Eqs. (16.13), (16.14), (16.15), (16.24), (16.25), and

(16.26), the control point C-based position tracking error between the
follower vehicle and its requirement position could be calculated as:

(16.27)

A simple steering strategy for responding to longitudinal and
heading tracking error is given as

(16.28)

A PID controller was designed to maintain the required distance
between                                              the leader and the follower vehicle; control 
of the follower
velocity could be given as

(16.29)

(16.30)

where k1, k2, k3 are control parameters corresponding to required
distance d01 and angle Φ01, kD, kI, kp are parameter of the PID controller
adjusted                                          during field experiments. Notice that once the 
required values
of distance d01 and angle Φ01 were altered, the control parameters also
needed to be adjusted.

16.3 Field Experiments


Experiments for verifying the stability and accuracy of the camera–
marker                                           sensing system and leader trajectory tracking 
accuracy were

conducted at the Agricultural and Forestry Research Center, University
of Tsukuba (Ibaraki, Japan). The camera–marker sensing system
evaluation experiments included both a static and a dynamic evaluation
experiment.                                          The static evaluation experiment was intended 
to verify

the stability and accuracy of the designed observation method and

optimize the camera coefficients. The dynamic evaluation experiment
was                                          designed to determine the threshold values for data 
estimation and
smoothing, analyze the observation stability and accuracy, and verify

the effectiveness of the least-squares method-based data estimation
and                                         smoothing solution. A SICK LMS 511 LRF was used to 
provide
reference data, and the relative position from the LRF to the marker

plane was used as reference data to evaluate the camera observation
accuracy                                             (Fig. 16.7a).

Fig. 16.7  Field experiments of the leader–follower system. (a) Evaluation of
the camera–marker system; (b) tracking of a trajectory of the leader vehicle

In the tracking accuracy evaluation experiments, linear and parallel
tracking experiments were conducted on straight, turning, and zigzag
paths. Cylindrical markers were mounted above the rear wheel centers
of the leader and follower vehicles (Fig. 16.7b) to facilitate the LMS 511
LRF                                                 in recording their trajectories at a frequency 
of 25 Hz. The leader
vehicle was driven at a velocity of 0.3 m/s. The required distance d01
between the leader and the follower vehicle was 4 m in linear tracking.


In parallel tracking, the required lateral and longitudinal offsets of the
follower vehicle were set at 4 m and 2 m from the leader vehicle so that
the trajectory of the follower vehicle could parallel that of the leader

vehicle at a 2 m interval.

16.4 Results and Discussion

16.4.1 Evaluation of Camera–Marker Observation System

In the static evaluation experiment, the maximum distance from the
camera to the marker was approximately 6 m and the relative angle

that formed between the marker and the camera axis ranged from −40°
to                                                40° (Fig. 16.8). Using the LRF data as reference, 
the accuracy of the

leader–follower relative position obtained from the camera–marker
system                                           could be evaluated (Fig. 16.9). Linear regression 
analysis
showed that the orientation angle and distance between the leader and

follower vehicles obtained from the camera–marker system were stable
and                                                had high accuracy (Fig. 16.9a, e). Meanwhile, 
the leader–follower
relative angle obtained from the camera–marker system was unstable

(Fig. 16.9c). Compared with the accuracy of the orientation angle (Fig.

16.9f), the accuracy of the distance and relative angle obtained from the
camera–marker system degraded as the relative distance from the

camera to the marker increased (Fig. 16.9b, d). This phenomenon was
mainly caused by the limitation of the camera; the pitch angle of the
vehicle also potentially caused an observation error of the uneven

ground.


Fig. 16.8 Position of the marker. (a) Location of the marker. (b) Relative angle
between the marker and the x-axis

Fig. 16.9  Linear Regression and Accuracy analysis of the camera observation
referenced with the laser observation. (a) Distance; (b) Relative angle; (c)


Orientation angle; (d) Distance error; (e) Relative angle error; (f) Orientation
angle error

The RMS errors of the leader–follower relative distance, relative
angle,                                              and orientation angle observation were 
calculated. When the
distance between the camera and the marker was 6 m, the RMS errors
of the leader–follower relative distance, relative angle and orientation
angle observation were 5.8 cm, 5.07°, and 0.228°, respectively. At 4 m,
the RMS errors of the leader–follower relative distance, relative angle,
and orientation angle observation were 3.63 cm, 3.01°, and 0.239°,

respectively. Considering that the orientation angle obtained from the
camera–marker system was stable and had high accuracy, data

estimation and smoothing was only conducted for the distance and
relative angle observed. In the dynamic evaluation experiment, the

leader vehicle was driven along a zigzag path and the follower vehicle
was                                          controlled in remote mode to follow the leader. The 
camera

observation data before estimation and smoothing, the estimated and
smoothed data obtained through least-squares-based curve fitting, and
the LRF observation data were recorded during driving.

The results showed that both the camera data before estimation and
smoothing and the estimated and smoothed camera data closely

matched the LRF data (Fig. 16.10). The RMS errors of the camera

observation before estimation and smoothing were 4.7 cm and 3.15° for
the relative distance and relative angle, respectively. These coincided
with the results under static conditions, meaning that the motion of the
marker and the camera had little effect on the observation accuracy.

During the experiment, the camera-observed data were smoothed by
fitting a curve using the least-squares method. After data estimation
and smoothing, the camera observation data were observably
smoothed, as shown in the dotted rectangle (Fig. 16.10). Furthermore,
the accuracy of the leader–follower relative position observation was
improved after data estimation and smoothing, and the RMS errors of
the relative distance and relative angle were reduced to 4.6 cm and

2.87°, respectively (Fig. 16.11). Compared with the camera observation
data                                              before estimation and smoothing, the dispersion 
of the estimated
and smoothed data were also reduced, with the standard deviations of
the relative distance and relative angle reduced from 4.9 to 4.2 cm and


3.74 to 2.55°, respectively (Fig. 16.12). Those performances showed the
potential for stable and accurate observation when applied to real-sized
tractors, being clearly insensitive to the uneven ground and having
stable motion characteristics compared with the small-sized vehicles.

Fig. 16.10  Relative position between the camera and marker before smooth,
smoothed, and LRF data. (a) Relative distance; (b) Relative angle

Fig. 16.11  Relative position error for camera observation. (a) Relative
distance error; (b) Relative angle error


Fig. 16.12  Dispersion of camera observation data. (a) Dispersion of relative
distance; (b) Dispersion of relative angle

16.4.2 Tracking Performance

Tracking accuracy was evaluated using the interval space between the

leader and follower vehicle trajectories; the trajectory segments AB and
CD were used to calculate this interval space. The follower vehicle could
adjust                                                 its state and arrive at its required 
position relative to the leader
rapidly and smoothly (Figs. 16.13, 16.14 and 16.15).

Fig. 16.13 Leader trajectory tracking on a straight path. (a) Linear tracking;

(b) Parallel tracking


Fig. 16.14 Leader trajectory tracking on a turning path. (a) Linear tracking;

(b) Parallel tracking

Fig. 16.15 Leader trajectory tracking on a zigzag path. (a) Linear tracking; (b)
Parallel tracking

The tracking error between the leader and follower vehicle

trajectories is shown in Figs. 16.16, 16.17 and 16.18. During tracking on
a                                             straight path, a very low tracking error between the 
trajectories of the
leader and follower vehicles was observed; the maximum and RMS

tracking errors between these trajectories were 12.5 and 6.5 cm for

linear tracking and 14.1 and 7.1 cm for parallel tracking, respectively

(Fig. 16.16). During tracking on a turning path, the maximum and RMS
tracking errors between the trajectories were 18.2 cm and 8.9 cm for

linear and 29.0 cm and 14.6 cm for parallel tracking, respectively (Fig.
16.17). During tracking on a zigzag path, the maximum and RMS

tracking errors between the trajectories were 35.0 cm and 16.4 cm for
linear and 24.5 cm and 14.0 cm for parallel tracking, respectively (Fig.


16.18). In comparison with the straight path, the turning and zigzag
path                                            tracking showed higher error. From trajectories of 
the leader and
follower vehicles, it can be observed that a larger variation of the

direction of the leader vehicle would result in a larger tracking error
(Figs. 16.14 and 16.15). This error remained at a low level when the
leader vehicle was driven on a constant-curvature path. Considering
road space and agricultural operations, the tracking accuracy was
sufficient to ensure safe tracking and precision operation.

Fig. 16.16  Tracking error between leader and the follower trajectories during
tracking on a straight path. (a) Linear tracking; (b) Parallel tracking

Fig. 16.17  Tracking error between the leader and the follower trajectories
during tracking on a turning path. (a) Linear tracking; (b) Parallel tracking


Fig. 16.18  Tracking error between the leader and the follower trajectory
during tracking on a zigzag path. (a) Linear tracking; (b) Parallel tracking

16.5 Discussion

The driverless follower is the key of this research, which confirmed the
high accuracy in following the human-driven leader and the

performance of the control system. Experiments were conducted using
a                                           specially built robot as follower to confirm the 
accuracy of tracking
and develop a control system without any built-in communication
between the leader and the follower. The traveling courses were chosen
according to standard agricultural operations, such as straight, turning,
and zigzag paths. The tracking performance between the leader and the
follower was satisfactory under regular field conditions. Undulating

terrain and adverse climatic conditions were ignored in the field

experiments. The experiments were conducted mostly under daytime
conditions. The camera marker system was assisted with the LRF for
cross checking the accuracy of the marker positions both in static and

dynamic conditions. The LRF was utilized as an assist device to provide
reference                                               data and recorded the trajectories during 
tracking. The

contour extraction was influenced by illumination conditions. Low
illumination conditions or strong sunlight under an outdoor

environment would reduce the contrast ratio of the image and affect

the contour of squares, causing marker detection failure. To expand the
scope to adapt to various illumination conditions, the image contrast
was enhanced using a histogram method that ensured stable

observation under various light conditions while conducting


experiments during the daytime. The vertical vehicle’s movement or
pitch                                               angle of the vehicle body was not considered, 
as there was not
much effect of posture changes of the leader and follower vehicles
when projected onto the image plane while traveling on regular ground.
This was one of the limitations of this research. However, to overcome
such limitations, the centerline of the squares in the vertical direction
was used to estimate the relative position between the camera and
marker plane. The experiments were conducted with the prototype

robot to confirm the accuracy and develop suitable control systems.
The validation was done with a human-driven small vehicle as leader
and                                             the autonomous prototype robot as follower. 
Definitely in an

agricultural environment an actual size autonomous unit can be used as
follower by implementing the proposed camera marker sensing and

control systems. The productivity would definitely be higher, by
reducing labor through enabling the human-driven leader and
autonomous follower system.

16.6 Conclusions

In this study, a human-driven leader and automatic follower trajectory-
tracking system was developed. A low-cost camera servo system,

comprising a web camera, encoder, and a servomotor, was
implemented.                                            An effective camera–marker detection method 
was
developed to follow the leader, which was controlled by an operator. A
solution for enhancing image contrast that involved using the

histogram method, offsetting vehicle roll angle, and estimating and
smoothing the camera observation using the least-squares method

ensured a stable and accurate monocular vision system that was able to
estimate the relative position between the leader and the follower

vehicles with high accuracy. A feedback control rule and a PID

controller were also developed and exhibited good performance for
linear and parallel leader trajectory tracking. The estimation and

smoothing of the camera observation data reduced camera noise and
yielded relative positional information between the leader and the

follower vehicle with high accuracy. As a result, a stable velocity and
steering angle of the follower vehicle and high accuracy of the


trajectory tracking was established. Thus, a low-cost, reliable

navigation system for a leader and follower vehicle tracking system was
demonstrated. In further research, the leader should be converted to a
remote control unit to make it unnecessary for the operator to be on-
board the leader vehicle. Additionally, to overcome the limitations of

the prototype leader–follower system, such as guidance in the adverse
climatic                                           conditions are required to consider for 
agricultural operations.

Acknowledgments

Thanks to Open Access Publishers Land from MDPI to have their policy
to                                             support the authors for reusing of the published 
article. In this

regard, we would like to extend our gratitude to Sensors Journal to
publish                                              this article (Linhuan Zhang, Tofael Ahamed, 
Yan Zhang, Pengbo
Gao and Tomohiro Takigawa. Vision-Based Leader Vehicle Trajectory
Tracking for Multiple Agricultural Vehicles. Sensors, 16(4), 578;
https://doi.org/10.3390/s16040578, 2016). We thank University of
Tsukuba for supporting this research and express our gratitude to the
technical staff of Agricultural and Forest Research Center, University of
Tsukuba for their cooperation.

Conflicts of Interest

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

References

Abe, G., Mizushima, A., & Noguchi, N. (2005). Study on a straight follower
control algorithm based on a laser scanner. Journal of the Japanese Society of
Agricultural Machinery (Japan), 67(3), 65–71.

Ahamed, T., Takigawa, T., Koike, M., Honma, T., Hasegawa, H., & Zhang, Q.
(2006). Navigation using a laser range finder for autonomous tractor (part 1)
positioning of implement. Journal of the Japanese Society of Agricultural

Machinery (Japan), 68(1), 68–77.

Ahamed, T., Tian, L., Takigawa, T., & Zhang, Y. (2009). Development of auto-
hitching navigation system for farm implements using laser range finder.


Transactions of the ASABE, 52(5), 1793–1803. https://doi.org/10.13031/2013.
29120

[Crossref]

Caballero, F., Merino, L., Ferruz, J., & Ollero, A. J. J. (2009). Vision-based
odometry and SLAM for medium and high altitude flying UAVs. Journal of
Intelligent and Robotic Systems, 54(1), 137–161.

[Crossref]

Courbon, J., Mezouar, Y., Guénard, N., & Martinet, P. (2010). Vision-based
navigation of unmanned aerial vehicles. Control Engineering Practice, 18(7),
789–799.

[Crossref]

Espinosa, F., Santos, C., Marró n-Romera, M., Pizarro, D., Valdés, F., & Dongil, J. J.

S. (2011). Odometry and laser scanner fusion based on a discrete extended
Kalman filter for robotic platooning guidance. Sensors, 11(9), 8339–8357.
[Crossref][PubMed][PubMedCentral]

Goi, H. K., Giesbrecht, J. L., Barfoot, T. D., & Francis, B. A. (2010). Vision-based
autonomous convoying with constant time delay. Journal of Field Robotics,
27(4), 430–449.

[Crossref]

Han, S., Zhang, Q., Ni, B., & Reid, J. (2004). A guidance directrix approach to
vision-based vehicle guidance systems. Computers and Electronics in Agriculture,
43(3), 179–195.

[Crossref]

Hasegawa, H., Takigawa, T., Koike, M., Yoda, A., & Sakai, N. (2000). Studies on
visual recognition of an agricultural autonomous tractor detection of the field
state by image processing. Japanese Journal of Farm Work Research, 35(3), 141–
147.

[Crossref]

Iida, M., Maekawa, T., & Umeda, M. (1999). Automatic follow-up vehicle system
for agriculture (Part 1). Journal of the Japanese Society of Agricultural Machinery,
61(1), 99–106.

Johnson, D. A., Naffin, D. J., Puhalla, J. S., Sanchez, J., & Wellington, C. K. (2009).
Development and implementation of a team of robotic tractors for autonomous
peat moss harvesting. Journal of Field Robotics, 26(6–7), 549–571.


[Crossref]

Johnson, E. N., Calise, A. J., Sattigeri, R., Watanabe, Y., & Madyastha, V. (2004).
Approaches to vision-based formation control. Paper presented at the 2004 43rd
IEEE conference on decision and control (CDC) (IEEE Cat. No. 04CH37601).

Kannan, S. K., Johnson, E. N., Watanabe, Y., & Sattigeri, R. (2011). Vision-based
tracking of uncooperative targets. International Journal of Aerospace Engineering,
2011, 243268.

[Crossref]

Kise, M., Noguchi, N., Ishii, K., & Terao, H. (2004). Laser scanner-based obstacle
detection system for autonomous tractor movement and shape detection
targeting   at agricultural vehicle. Journal of the Japanese Society of Agricultural

Machinery (Japan), 66(2), 97–104.

Krajnı́k, T., Nitsche, M., Faigl, J., Vaněk, P., Saska, M., Přeučil, L., Duckett, T., &
Mejail, M. (2014). A practical multirobot localization system. Journal of
Intelligent & Robotic Systems, 76(3), 539–562.

[Crossref]

Morin, P., Samson, C. J. S., & h. o. r. (2008). Motion control of wheeled mobile
robots. In B. Siciliano & O. Khatib (Eds.), Springer handbook of robotics (pp. 799–
826). Springer.

[Crossref]

Noguchi, N., & Barawid, O. C., Jr. (2011). Robot farming system using multiple
robot tractors in Japan agriculture. IFAC Proceedings Volumes, 44(1), 633–637.
[Crossref]

Noguchi, N., Will, J., Reid, J., & Zhang, Q. (2004). Development of a master–slave
robot system for farm operations. Computers and Electronics in Agriculture,
44(1), 1–19.

[Crossref]

Ou, M., Li, S., & Wang, C. (2013). Finite-time tracking control for multiple non-
holonomic mobile robots based on visual servoing. International Journal of

Control, 86(12), 2175–2188.

[Crossref]

Peng, Z., Wang, D., Liu, H. H., & Sun, G. (2014). Neural adaptive control for
leader–follower flocking of networked nonholonomic agents with unknown


nonlinear dynamics. Adaptive Control and Signal Processing, 28(6), 479–495.
[Crossref]

Zhang, X., Geimer, M., Noack, P. O., & Grandl, L. (2010). A semi-autonomous
tractor in an intelligent master–slave vehicle system. Intelligent Service Robotics,
3(4), 263–269.

[Crossref]


© The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd. 2023

T. Ahamed (ed.), IoT and AI in Agriculture

https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-19-8113-5_17

17. Autonomous Robots in Orchard

Management: Present Status and Future
Trends

R. M. Rasika D. Abeyrathna¹, ² and Tofael Ahamed³

(1) Graduate School of Science and Technology, University of Tsukuba,

Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan

(2) Department of Agricultural Engineering, Faculty of Agriculture,

University of Peradeniya, Peradeniya, Sri Lanka

(3) Faculty of Life & Environmental Sciences, University of Tsukuba,
Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan

Tofael Ahamed

Email: tofael.ahamed.gp@u.tsukuba.ac.jp

Abstract

This chapter aims to explore the opportunities and challenges in

orchard management regarding the automation of orchard automation
from                                          preharvest to postharvest systems. Labor shortages and
dependency on expert growers have become challenging in developed
and developing countries. Furthermore, extensive dependence on
seasonal labor, which is scarce, and rapidly increasing labor costs have
sparked interest in the use of automated machines in orchard

operations, which in turn is crucial for improving the quality of high-
value                                               fruit crops. Reasons for commercial 
implementation failure
include high initial and maintenance costs. Architectural differences in
the fields render trajectory planning and manipulator operations
impractical. Newly introduced orchard architectures enable robotic
platforms to successfully achieve the desired robotic manipulation.


Task-specific robotic manipulators and grippers with few degrees of

freedom robotic arms in combination with developed neural networks
and                                         classification methods are innovations for achieving 
the

commercialization of orchard automation and low-cost roboticization
of                                     medium-scale orchard crops.

Keywords Orchard architectures – Trajectory planning – Manipulators
–                                          Grippers – Neural networks

17.1 Introduction

Fruit cultivation is one of the key subsectors of horticulture and plays a
vital role in human nutrition. Fruits are highly nutritious, making them
essential for human health. A large variety of fruit crops are grown

worldwide. Tree fruits are one of the important subcategories in the

fruit industry and contribute significantly to global fruit production. Of
the 887 million tons of estimated fruit production worldwide in 2020,
tree fruit crops (i.e., apples, grapes, oranges, mangoes, pears, etc.)
accounted for 50% of the total production (FAO, 2020).

Tree fruit crops are usually referred to as orchard crops. An area

that is often enclosed and devoted to fruit cultivation is usually denoted
as                                                 an orchard. Since orchard fruit production is 
highly competitive,

growers are pursuing more effective methods to manage their orchard
operations precisely and automatically. However, the orchard fruit
market also remains competitive in the global market due to its

uniformity, taste, lack of injuries, and optimum harvesting time and
methods. Furthermore, insufficient labor availability coupled with
rapidly increasing labor costs and, more importantly, the risk of
dependence on seasonal human labor has sparked interest in the use of
automated machines and the scope of the utilization of robots in

orchard operations, which in turn is crucial for improving the quality of
high-value fruit crops.

During the past few decades, substantial improvements in field

robotic systems have been reported due to technological advancements
in                                         high-tech computers and sensors with high processing 
power.

Furthermore, the availability of cheap electronics provides more


practical situations worldwide. Therefore, current methods of
production of most field crops, such as corn, wheat, and soybean,

mainly rely on machinery and automated systems with the support of
the Global Navigation Satellite System (GNSS). However, GNSS has

limitations due to interruptions and complex canopies. The positioning
of                                           sensors for vision and perception have more 
reliability in orchard-
based automation. In principle, these developed technologies might be
adapted to orchard fruit production. However, due to cultivation and
morphological differences between fruit crops and field crops, some
management options that are unique in orchard fruit production (i.e.,
pruning, thinning, training, and harvesting) have made the task more
difficult. For instance, automating fruit harvesting requires unique
applications due to the irregular distribution of fruit on trees, uneven
maturity of the fruit and the requirement for high-quality harvested

fruits. Meanwhile, the implementation of several operations in orchard
fruit                                          production, such as fertilizer and pesticide 
application and
irrigation, is similar to that of field crops. However, these operations

require specific mechanisms that comply with the morphological
features                                            and management practices. Moreover, the natural

morphological features of orchard crops have increased the difficulty of
applying manipulator kinematics in orchard operations.

Amidst these complications in adaptation and implementation,
during                                            the last few decades, several researchers have 
attempted to
mechanize orchard operations, among which most of them are
dedicated to one specific task (i.e., harvesting or spraying), and several
robot prototypes have been developed and deployed. However, the
mechanization in tree fruit production is still far from the expectation
and orchard management relies primarily on human labor. Few or no

commercially viable automation options are available for orchard crops
at                                             present.

In fact, automated robots that emulate human labor are essential for
automating different operations in orchard management. The essential
components that should be incorporated into developed robotics to
accomplish automation of these tasks include a vision system, a moving
mechanism (i.e., autonomous vehicles) and a special mechanism to
achieve the designated tasks (manipulators and grippers).


Previously, scientists attempted to achieve orchard automation that
would coordinate with the existing tree canopy structure. However,

they later realized that the most efficient and economical method of
achieving orchard automation is to change the tree structure to be
fitted into the robotic platform. This approach is the only method that
can reduce the number of degrees of freedom in the robotic arms,
which will lead to simple, low-cost, and quick manipulations. Thus, the
attention of the researchers has been diverted toward changing the

orchard architecture to facilitate simple manipulator operations, and
thus                                               the development of financially affordable 
automation options for
tree crops seems to be the next goal to ensure increased efficiency in
orchard operations.

Within the context discussed above, the focus of this chapter is to
first                                           introduce vision systems for orchard robotic 
operations, followed
by an account of the existing orchard operation robots and their

operating principles based on orchard pruning, thinning, spraying, and
harvesting orchard operations. The chapter proposes constructive
suggestions for improving orchard automation through simplified

robotic operations.

17.2 Vision Systems for Autonomous Orchard Robots

One of the most important components not only in the agricultural
robot                                              but also in any type of working robot is the 
vision system that

detects the autonomous movements of the other two main components
of                                               a robot; the manipulator and the robotic platform 
rely on the data

generated from the vision system. More importantly, without obtaining
accurate                                          information from the sensors, which are basically 
cameras,

neither manipulators nor robotic platforms perform predetermined

tasks accurately. Data acquired from the sensors are then processed by
a                                           controller (i.e., microcontroller, programmable logic 
controller or

computer) before being fed to the actuators to perform the
predetermined task.

The vision technology has been used for different orchard

operations, such as analyzing the growth of orchard trees; identifying
pests,                                           diseases, and weeds; applying chemical or 
biofertilizers;


harvesting fruits; pruning branches; removing excess flowers and
fruits; and navigating autonomous vehicles inside the orchard.

For robotic applications, either individual or different combinations
of                                           cameras have been used to improve the accuracy by 
obtaining more
details. State-of-the-art 2D and 3D vision systems are commonly used
to identify objects under real-world conditions. Spectral waves such as
ultrasound, light, infrared, and light have been used to obtain depth
information, but optical techniques have become more popular because
of fast data acquisition, safety, and the ability to obtain a high lateral

resolution (Bü ttgen et al., 2005). However, 3D images have x, y, and z
coordinates and thereby generate more details than 2D images, which
consist of x and y coordinates. Therefore, the use of 3D images has
become popular as it is more useful in manipulating robotic arms to
achieve the desired tasks.

Detection of the target fruit in the 3D orientation has the potential
to                                         determine the efficiency of the whole robotic platform. 
In 3D
imaging, different basic techniques have been used for acquiring depth
values, as illustrated in Fig. 17.1. The time-of-flight (ToF) technique

(Fig. 17.1a) measures the wave receiving time compared to the wave
generated time when the speed of light is known. The different wave
modulation methods that have been applied include pseudo noise

modulation, pulse modulation and continuous wave modulation. In this
technique, the distance to object x is obtained from Eq. (17.1), where t
is the traveling time of the light pulse. Figure 17.1b illustrates the

interferometry principle, which is used to obtain the depth at the

nanometer level accuracy. Here, the distance or depth x is proportional
to n number of fringes and wavelength of the light (λ), as calculated
using Eq. (17.2) (Lange, 2000). Figure 17.1c shows the triangulation

technique using a light beam, and Fig. 17.1d shows the same technique
using                                             passive illumination. In these two techniques, 
the distance x is

obtained by measuring the location that hits the receiving image sensor
(d, d1, or d2) or obtaining the angle of the incoming and reflecting light
beams, which are calculated using Eqs. (17.3) and (17.4) (F is the focal

length, y is the baseline) (Schwarte et al., 1999; Jähne et al., 1999;
Vázquez-Arellano et al., 2016).


Fig. 17.1  Illustration of 3D vision techniques used in agricultural robotics: (a)
time-of-flight (ToF) technique, (b) Michelson interferometer principle, (c) light
beam triangulation technique, and (d) stereo vision triangulation technique

(17.1)

(17.2)

(17.3)

(17.4)

The sensor readings may change depending on the light conditions
received by the camera sensors. The lighting conditions basically
depend                                                  on environmental factors such as weather 
variability and time,
especially in temperate countries. Retinex principle and wavelet

transform techniques are used to enhance the image qualities and


overcome the effect of varying light conditions (Wang et al., 2017). The
effect of obstacles such as branches and fruits is another factor that
hinders the sensor reading. Figure 17.2 shows the typical inter row

navigation pathway between apple rows, and it further illustrates how
hard                                                 it is to reach apples even by hand without 
collision with other

fruits and branches.

Fig. 17.2  Typical apple orchard spacing between rows for autonomous vehicle
navigation

Therefore, the vision systems should be sufficiently accurate to
detect                                                the obstacles and proceed with the robotic 
arm operations. New
canopy structures were proposed to have only one fruit on one stem by

improving fruit tree genetics to avoid the hindrances generated by extra
fruits. In this case, the machine vision system easily detects and

localizes fruits. With the introduction of v-terraces concepts, the effect
of                                           obstacles created by branches and reaching the fruits 
in the deep

canopy and fruit clusters can be avoided in orchard operations.
Different                                         studies have used different methods, such as 
their color,
shape, texture, size, and edge features, to detect fruits. Tabb et al.

(2006a, b) and Silwal et al. (2017) used a Bayesian classifier along with
neural networks to improve detection, which requires different


classification techniques and thresholding levels. The convex hull
method was introduced to identify single fruits and to detect the center
point of the citrus fruits (Changhui et al., 2017).

Manipulation of the end effector based on camera coordinates may
vary. One method is to use the traveling salesman problem (TSP)

technique, which finds the minimum distance to the target location.
However, this method requires the help of other algorithms (Silwal et
al., 2017).

The other robotic arm manipulation method is the global camera
system, where the camera is mounted at a fixed position and captures
images                                                 at the beginning of one harvesting cycle. 
After fruit detection
and localization, the manipulator moves to all the fruits detected in the
images by starting at the first one in the sequence; the order of

reaching toward the fruits is determined by the manipulator
parameters,                                           and the inverse kinematic is used to 
calculate the
manipulator position each time or the manipulator moves to homing
positions each time and recalculate the next target. Once the
manipulator finishes reaching all the targets in the frame, the camera

captures images for the second round. Previous studies suggest that the
camera must coordinate with a precisely calibrated end effector or
manipulator to achieve this task, and the error between two

coordinates may result in problems for the next cycle as well (Tabb et
al., 2006a, b).

The autonomous movement of robotic platforms and manipulators
depends                                                 on the data generated and processed by the 
vision system. The
use of the Global Navigation Satellite System (GNSS) is one of the

commonly applied methods. However, this method is not useful when
disturbances appear in the orchard while the vehicle is moving through
orchards. Similarly, the global positioning system (GPS) is unable to
identify obstacles in the field. Real-time kinematic (RTK) technology
has been used to overcome these problems. However, the use of vision
systems in combination with artificial and machine vision is more

reliable and has become more technologically advanced. Obstacles,
artificial                                       markers, and field structures have been used as 
field markers
and identified by vision systems. In machine vision, recent image

processing techniques include instance segmentation and object


detection through training, validation and testing of large datasets
using                                           neural networks, convolutional neural networks 
(CNNs), and
deep neural networks (DNNs) to increase the accuracy of detection.

The research and applications help produce different CNN-based
neural                                          networks to increase the accuracy of object 
detection and
semantic segmentation. For example, a study has been conducted to

localize apples by integrating CNNs (Häni et al., 2018), similar to mango
identification and localization using deep learning (Stein et al., 2016).

Furthermore, a deep learning pipeline was used to count apples and
oranges                                             after detection based on a blob detector (Chen 
et al., 2017).

Integration of vector machines was developed to distinguish and

classify apple fruits, leaves, and branches with the support of a genetic
algorithm (Yongting & Jun, 2017). The calculation of the time required
for one robotic cycle is essential in terms of productivity (Silwal et al.,
2017); when the weight of the components increases, the inertia is
high, and energy usage also increases, resulting in low robotic arm
performance. Most robotic arms use steppers and servo motors, which
use DC power from batteries or power from generators. Hydraulic
motors and actuators might also represent a novel approach; the
difficulty lies in sensing angles and distances accurately, where more
precision is needed, and the weight of the parts is greater.

17.3 Autonomous Robotic Pruning in the Orchards

Physical removal of branches and limbs is known as pruning, which is

one of the orchard management operations that is second to harvesting
in terms of labor requirements, while it requires 20% or more of the

total production cost per year (Gallardo et al., 2011; Hansen, 2011).
Additionally, it is a cumulative process that requires skilled workers to
perform it.

Penetration of sunlight inside the canopy creates high productivity
in                                             each branch, resulting in high-quality fruits. In 
orchard management
for robotic operations, the most important goal is to produce fruits of

equal size without pests and diseases, which facilitates easy robotic
manipulations                                                and picking, to achieve equal 
treatments for each part of
the tree. Pruning in combination with thinning helps to achieve the


balance between vegetation growth and reproductive growth. Pruning
is                                                an essential practice and always follows some 
protocols, depending
on the plant species, to achieve the desired shape.

In fruit orchard management, the final goal is to obtain continuous
production                                              during each cropping season while improving 
the yield and
maintaining the economic balance each harvesting season; the
horticultural balance of the orchard should be maintained to achieve

this goal. The reproductive and vegetative growth of trees depends on
the canopy balance. Hence, maintaining the canopy balance is an

important task for both maintaining a good healthy tree and continuous
production                                                  in terms of fruit size and quality 
(Schupp et al., 2017).

Training and pruning management practices are essential to achieve
strong                                               and healthy orchard conditions (Feucht & 
Larsen, 2009), which
is particularly important for orchards that use robotic operations.

Figure 17.3 shows the well-maintained fruit orchard systems in
Tsukuba-Plant Innovation Research Center (T-PIRC Farm) at the
University of Tsukuba.


Fig. 17.3 (a) “Two-arm” orchard tree training system, (b) hedgerow orchard
tree training system, (c) single curtain and double curtain orchard training
system, and (d) Guyot orchard fruit training system

Maintaining a safe and healthy workforce is a challenging task in

orchard operations to ensure continuous maintenance and production
because repetitive motion causes muscle pains, back pains, injuries

caused by tools, slips from ladders and eye injuries in laborers (Fetzer,
2017). Replacing skilled labor with a machine is a challenging task for
researchers and orchard owners, and impressive developments have
been achieved in the past few years. Pruning is an inspiring task, and
robotic pruning operations are even more impressive. The rapid

development of sensors, cameras, and neural networks has helped
researchers replace laborers with pruning robots.

Mechanical pruning is one of the techniques used by orchard
owners to reduce the canopy size and maintain the shape of trees.

Hedging is the mass removal of biomass from the trees that requires


hand pruning again as a follow-up process to remove unwanted dead
branches, which is sometimes integrated with chemical pruning.

Several factors determine the proper method for pruning, including the
plant age, species, canopy shape, height, cutting time, and planting
density ( Sansavini, 1976) . Dormant pruning is conducted to remove
unproductive tree parts and to obtain more space for other growing
parts and maintain plant health, and powered shears and manual

loppers are used for this operation (He & Schupp, 2018). Mechanical
pruning                                                is already automated, but nonselective 
pruning is performed.

Pruning is performed in the winter and summer seasons, and

robotic pruning has been mainly chosen for winter because the vision
systems can easily identify the pruning points. The implementation of
orchard systems such as those shown in Figs. 17.4, 17.5, and 17.6 is a
labor-intensive task, and the architecture has the ability to facilitate

easy autonomous vehicle movements between tree rows, the easy
identification                                                 of target fruits by the vision 
system and easy manipulator
movements to the canopy with fewer collisions. This system creates a

getaway for researchers to develop manipulators with a smaller
number of degrees of freedom for easy orchard operations. As

illustrated in Fig. 17.7a, a normal orchard pruning robot for normal
orchard                                           pruning requires a manipulator with a higher 
number of
degrees of freedom to reach the target locations. Figure 17.7b shows

the pruning robot in a well-maintained vertical axis orchard system; the
robotic manipulator can perform the desired task using a smaller

number of movements.


Fig. 17.4 (a) Side view and (b) front view of a V-trellis fruit tree training
orchard

Fig. 17.5 (a) Side view and (b) front view of a vertical axis fruit orchard
system

Fig. 17.6 (a) Side view and (b) front view of espaliers training of apple trees


Fig. 17.7  Scopes of robotic pruning: (a) higher DoF robotic arms and (b)
simple robotic arms

However, pruning is frequently a challenging task, as the gripper
must                                           generate a higher force for pruning and the robotic 
arm should
withstand the counterforce. Under real-world conditions, the collision
of other branches with the robotic manipulator, fruits and flowers
becomes a problem, restricting the gripper from moving to the target
position. Additionally, environmental factors such as varying light

conditions cause some errors in vision systems, and wind sometimes
shakes                                               the whole tree, which affects manipulator 
movements.

Normal orchard trees do not grow in the same shape, and the
inconsistency                                               in the size of crop rows and trees 
prevents the easy
application of precision techniques and automation. Well-maintained
orchard systems, which are more unique and simplified, with tree

training help machine vision systems to identify and detect the fruits
and                                           branches easily using developed neural networks and 
uses simple
robotic kinematics to reach the target locations (Karkee et al., 2014).
Training of orchard trees for robotic operations is becoming popular,
but the main aim of this management practice is to maintain a uniform
tree structure year-round.

Grape vine branch detection has become popular because of its
uniform                                             canopy structure. A 3D camera was used to 
determine the
exact cutting site for pruning on the branches by measuring the branch


length, and the algorithm accuracy was 96.8% (Mahdi & Abdolabbas,
2017).

A robotic manipulator for pruning should have a specific end
effector; it may be a cutting blade or blades with a scissor motion

(Lehnert, 2012). Pruning robots are more complex than harvesting
robots                                           because after detecting the branches, the 
algorithms should
calculate the specific points for pruning based on pruning rules, and

then the manipulator should move to specific locations while placing
the                                               end effector cutting point perpendicular to the 
branch; the cutting

angle is not always perpendicular. LiDAR (Light Detection and Ranging)
sensors                                               have been used to overcome GPS inaccuracy and 
as a support
method for object detection. LiDAR uses pulsed light waves to assess

the surroundings, which can be used for many orchard and agricultural
applications.

The use of LiDAR sensors for biomass mapping in forests is a
popular method. 3D reconstruction is required to perform this task,
and the “Simple Tree” tool was developed as a cloud-based 3D tree

reconstruction method for forest inventories using laser-scanned trees,
with a 0.965 coefficient of determination, indicating its effectiveness

(Brandtberg et al., 2003).

Another study was conducted to identify primary branches and
diameters for dormant pruning. The system identified the branches
with                                                 98% accuracy and the diameters with 0.6 error, 
and a laser sensor
was used for this study (Medeiros et al., 2017). However, the LiDAR
sensor combined with the reconstruction algorithm was used to

generate a 3D model of the canopy structure by achieving a 0.78

correlation with branch length and a 0.99 correlation with branch
diameter                                          (Bucksch & Fleck, 2011). Meanwhile, 3D cameras 
were also
used to develop 3D models for orchard tree thinning and pruning

(Cheng et al., 2007).

LiDAR, laser scanner sensors, and 3D camera images have been
used to develop 3D models and then make the decision based on that
model                                           using artificial intelligence. The decisions are 
always dependent
on predetermined pruning principles for the target tree. For the grape
vines, a similar technique was used to determine the pruning points.


Table 17.1 illustrates some of the developed 3D models and the use of
3D models for orchard pruning.

Table 17.1 Some of robotic orchard pruning applications/3D model
developments

Orchard application         Sensors and algorithms


Apple tree dormant pruning
(Medeiros et al., 2017)

Fruit (Apple) tree traits
measurements (Tabb & Medeiros,
2017)

Apple tree dormant pruning (Akbar
et al., 2016)

Apple tree dormant pruning
(Chattopadhyay et al., 2016)

Apple tree shape sensing (Karkee &
Adhikari, 2015)

3D modeling of apple tree (Elfiky et
al., 2015)

Apple pruning branches
identification (Karkee et al., 2014)

Time-of-flight camera, Laser scanner split-and-merge
clustering algorithm, the robust fitting algorithm

Color cameras, Robotic System for Tree Shape Estimation
(RoTSE), outdoor environment

Kinect2 sensor, 3D reconstruction, and modeling-based
algorithm (Akbar et al., 2016)

Kinect2 sensor (KinectFusion software), semicircle fit
model created

Time-of-Flight (ToF) camera

Skeleton-based Geometric (SbG) features based, model
accuracy 96.0%, algorithm—(circle-based-layer-aware
modeling)

ToF 3D camera, based on developed pruning rules

The development of 3D models for pruning applications has become
popular because these pruning models have been used for the
identification of pruning points in tress and robotic manipulations. A

3D model was developed for existing tree structures to operate passive
robots                                              (Edan et al., 1991). When developing tree 
models in 3D space, a
simulation procedure for the geometric features based on the L-

Systems method was introduced (Prusinkiewicz et al., 1990). For
Buckeye                                           Gala apple tree pruning, a pruning severity index 
was

introduced, the limb-to-trunk ratio (LTR) index, which was used for 3

consecutive years and achieved promising results (Schupp et al., 2017).

Similarly, the geometric features of the fruit trees are described with
the                                              help of geometric transformation. The Markov chain 
method was

introduced to analyze fruit tree architectures (Costes et al., 2006). The
development of this model is based on three methods: 3D scanning


(Méndez et al., 2014), visual images (Santos & Ueda, 2013), and
mechanical sampling of points (Edan et al., 1991).

Meanwhile, thinning is important as pruning to balance the

reproductive growth of fruit orchard systems. Maintaining an equal
fruit                                             size is much more important for robotic 
harvesting during the
harvesting period and for maintaining fruit quality, appearance and

preferability. The removal of extra flowers to facilitate the desired size
and                                              yield is known as thinning, and manual labor and 
chemicals are
used for this purpose. The use of robotic platforms is possible with the
existing developed neural networks by detecting and counting flowers.
This process is completed with high accuracy in developed, well-

trained orchard systems. 3D stereo cameras have been used to

determine the 3D locations of the flowers after detecting flowers based
on                                               color and shape features, followed by robotic 
manipulation to the

target location to spray chemicals or remove the flowers using finger
grippers.

A mechanical string thinner was developed to reduce the flower
density                                                in peach orchards and tested for more than 
two seasons in
different orchard systems with promising results (Schupp & Baugher,
2011). The mechanical thinning efficiency depends on the angle of the
string thinner and the speed of rotation. Table 17.2 illustrates some of
the research conducted in orchard flower identification and thinning.

Table 17.2 Orchard flower detection and thinning applications

Orchard application  Application


Apple orchard (Dias et
al., 2018)

Peach orchard (Horton
et al., 2017)

Almond orchard
(Underwood et al., 2016)

Pear orchard (Wouters
et al., 2015)

Peach orchard (Lyons et
al., 2015)

Novel CNN-flower detection, precision and recall more than 90%

Unmanned aerial vehicles (UAV)—multispectral camera, average
detection 84.3%/peach flowers emerged before leaves

LiDAR, color camera, based on flower and fruit distribution-yield
prediction

Multispectral camera-detect flower buds, use of near-infrared wave
bands, canonical correlation analysis—spectral discriminant model,
detection around 87%

Thee brush end effector, selective thinning


Orchard application

Apple orchard (Hočevar
et al., 2014)

Apple orchard (Gebbers
et al., 2013)

Peach orchard (Yang,
2012)

Peach orchard (Nielsen
et al., 2012)

Peach orchard (Aasted et
al., 2011)

Apple orchard
(Aggelopoulou et al.,
2011)

Peach orchard (Emery et
al., 2010)

Application

Still and industrial color camera, (hue, saturation, luminance)-based
flower cluster identification, hypothetical based spraying

Stereo camera, real-time flower density based thinner adjustment
Table-top thinning robotic arm

Correlation-based stereo algorithm, nighttime-flash illumination
operations, outdoor mapping of flower locations

Mechanical thinning, perpendicular V-orchard system-LiDAR sensor
for autonomous navigation rotating thinner

Chemical thinning, predicting yield based on images at tree full bloom

Laser-based 3D images, dynamical scanning approach, (indoor),
robotic guide thinning

Based on the evidence available, mechanical string thinning is a
promising solution for reducing flower density. Meanwhile, it can be
developed for area-specific mechanical string thinning, as some of the
studies have proven its success (Fig. 17.8). The developed neural

networks, sensors, and developed orchard structures will lead to
manipulator-based flower thinning, which has been reported by some
scientists.


Fig 17.8 (a) Mechanical string thinning of flowers. (b) Robotic string thinning
of identified parts of the orchard trees by the robotic manipulators with a
lower number of degrees of freedom

17.4 Pollination of Orchards Crops Using
Autonomous Robots

Mechanical pollination is another important application of orchard
robotics                                               that may reduce labor costs and reduce the 
time required for

intensive operation. The detection of flowers is the main objective of a
bud                                          simulation. With the help of neural network detection 
models such
as YOLO (You Only Look Once) and Mask-RCNN (Region-Based

Convolutional Neural Network), this task becomes achievable, but real-
time detection and movement of the manipulator or bud simulation
mechanism is challenging.

However, after UAVs (unmanned aerial vehicles) were integrated in
robotic operations, spraying liquids and granules became easy

operations. Compared with the ground operation pollination vehicles,
UAVs                                               have more advantages in terms of canopy 
coverage. A novel
pollination method has been established by developing robotic bees for
pollination to simulate environmental conditions and assess real

orchard conditions (Abutalipov et al., 2016). For spraying, pollen must
be                                              mixed with another liquid that helps to deposit it 
on the flowers, and
it should be used in a powdered form. Mechanical spraying of liquid
and powders is a challenging task for many reasons, while precision
spraying is even more thought-provoking and requires a precision

nozzle system, pressure control system for liquid and powders to have
the                                             desired application pressure at various places, 
boom length that is
automatically adjusted according to the canopy structure, and a

consideration of environmental factors (ex-wind speed) and vehicle
running speed.

Meanwhile, several studies have been performed to develop a
kiwifruit                                         autonomous pollination system with a manipulator 
operation.
For example, in harvesting robots, the manipulator is attached to an
autonomous platform, and a 70% flower detection is achieved using a
CNN-based image recognition model. The results reveal that the


pollination percentage is 80% (Barnett et al., 2017). Parallel work was
conducted by Washington State University to examine the effect and
productivity of pollination by suspending pollen in sucrose and boron
solutions. Automated pollination was compared with natural
pollination, and the results showed that this novel method is three

times more effective than pollination by bees (Whiting, 2016).

Electrostatic chemical spraying is an achievable task, and more studies
of                                         electrostatic pollination are needed to determine a 
reliable method.

17.5 Use of Fertilizer and Liquid Chemical
Application Autonomous Robots in Orchards

Fertilizers and pesticides become very critical when they are applied at
larger concentrations on the plants; spending extra money on excess

chemicals is not profitable or economical. Most of the time, the farmers
do                                                 not follow the instructions on the label when 
applying chemicals
manually, and they do not even care about the physical parameters such
as the canopy density of the plants. Pesticides and herbicides are
harmful to human health.

When applying these chemicals to orchards, workers should wear
protective equipment for a long time, which is a tedious task. Moreover,
an excessive dosage may also be harmful to plants and the environment
(Fig. 17.9). With the development of new mechanical and robotics

systems, this pesticide spraying work can now be performed using
robots. Nevertheless, the dose adjustment of chemicals based on the
canopy structure and environmental conditions is a critical factor to

consider in autonomous application. Site-specific chemical application
is                                              one of the processes that evolves after the mass 
application method,
and thus this method can reduce the amount of chemicals used and the
chemical cost at the same time. Furthermore, it reduces the harmful

effect on the environment.


Fig. 17.9  Mass chemical application in an apple orchard using autonomous
navigation sprayers under normal orchard conditions

A vision system based on a neural network model is essential to
detect                                                the target location for site-specific 
spraying, and a grape cluster
detection algorithm (GDA) was developed. This GDA identifies and
distinguishes grape clusters from other parts of the grape vine.

Similarly, the Foliage Detection Algorithm (FDA) was developed to
detect                                             grape leaves, and with these developments, the 
identification of
specific locations of grape vine became a possibility. Real-time

detection was performed using an RGB camera, and the spraying
distances were calculated using distance sensors. The decision was
made based on machine vision, and the spray nozzles were operated as
actuators.                                             The results ensure that the system saves 45% 
of pesticide
use (Berenstein & Edan, 2018).

Hyperspectral images have been used to analyze plant health. This
method is used to apply fertilizer by determining plant health, and this
technology was used in the RIPPA (Bogue, 2016) and Ladybird robots
(Underwood et al., 2015). The same technology may be applied to
identify fruit health during the development of fruit growth, which
helps to improve yield by applying different treatments. Scientists


realize that when farmers spray chemicals, they should also consider
the                                           physical nature of each tree because if all those 
trees are at the
same maturity level, dimensional and structural aspects may change.

Based on these findings, researchers concluded that humans cannot
identify                                               those indices on their own. A developed 
machine vision system
must also identify those indices when spraying chemicals, and the
method of spraying is also not controlled by humans. Therefore,

automatic adjustments must be incorporated into the nozzle to achieve
precision                                            spraying. The area-specific chemical spraying 
robot with a
minimum number of degrees of freedom for robotic applications can be
further developed to provide a solution for site-specific chemical
application (Fig. 17.10). Spot spraying through UAVs has achieved
significant progress in reducing chemical application to fruit orchards.

Fig. 17.10  Area-specific chemical application with a robotic arm with smaller
degrees freedom in the V-trellis apple orchard system

The use of unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) has become popular in
farm management (Fig. 17.11); for large orchard management, UAVs


are an essential tool, and UAV multispectral cameras effectively

calculate the normalized difference vegetation index (NDVI). The
models have been used as a reference to identify uneven orchard
parameters, such as irrigation conditions and soil conditions. Then,
precautions can be taken to apply fertilizer and irrigate water and
pesticides. Earlier satellite images were used to analyze orchard

conditions, but UAVs now fly at low altitudes without any interference
from                                             clouds because if clouds are present, the 
satellite images become
unproductive (Kim et al., 2019).

Fig. 17.11  (a) Unmanned aerial vehicles (UAV) mass chemical spraying of a
normal orange orchard and (b) a V-trellis apple orchard system

A study was conducted to understand the dimensional parameters
of                                          vineyards in terms of chemical applications. Chemical 
penetration to
the canopy depth and losses may depend on the dimensional

parameters of the tree (Maccarrone & Scienza, 1998). A similar study
has                                              been performed to analyze the nozzle dose 
adjustments based on
size parameters of the target tree parts, but under real conditions, it


fails to achieve desired levels because of the effect of environmental
parameters                                             (e.g., wind) (Walklate et al., 2004).

Initially, chemical spraying robots were designed for the orchard to
obtain an understanding of the distances from autonomous vehicles to
orchard trees. Ultrasonic sensors were used to measure the distances
and feed to the main controller, while hydraulic spraying was

performed based on the signals sent from the main controller (Giles et
al., 1987, 1988). As an innovation in orchard chemical spraying robots,
an air-assisted chemical method (Balsari & Tamagnone, 1998) and an
automatic flow adjustment spraying method (Martn et al., 2001) were
developed. Although research and development in automated orchard
chemical and liquid fertilizer application have been achieved to a

certain extent, other areas still require attention.

The most used non-imaging sensors for characterizing the
structural                                      properties of the canopy are ultrasonic sensors and 
LIDAR
sensors. Infrared sensors were also used to obtain the canopy
structure, and these sensors analyze the canopy volume and depth

(Jeon et al., 2011). Laser scanners are also being used to analyze

canopy structures, and the results have been obtained with a 6.8%
coefficient of variance (Liu & Zhu, 2016).

Several autonomous systems have been developed and introduced
for                                        spraying chemicals in orchards. Some were able to 
achieve the
purpose of minimizing the wastage of high-cost agrochemicals (i.e.,
herbicides and pesticides), as these machines are deployed to spray

chemicals only to the targeted areas while avoiding nontarget areas
with                                              the use of a well-developed vision-based system 
(Berenstein et al.,
2010). For instance, autonomous vehicles that were developed to apply
pesticides to control pests in grapevines save 92% of chemicals

compared to a manual broadcasting sprayer (Kang et al., 2012).
Similarly,                                             the results of another study that aimed to 
apply chemicals to
control grape canopy powdery mildew disease using autonomous

vehicles showed that the mechanism reduces chemical wastage by 35%
at                                                 an accuracy level of 85–100% (Oberti et al., 
2016). Table 17.3 shows
the robotic spraying of chemicals/fertilizers in orchard management.


Table 17.3 Existing orchard robots for fertilizer and liquid chemical
application


Robot

Bly-c-agri (Sarri et al.,
2019)-Hexacopter

Robotic sprayer
(Berenstein & Edan,
2018)-4WD

SAVSAR (Adamides et
al., 2017)-4WD

autonomous vehicle

AgriRobot (Adamides
et al., 2017)-4WD

autonomous vehicle

Bly-c-agri (Turner et
al., 2011)-UAV-

Octocopter

Cäsar (Anon.,
n.d.)-4WD

autonomous vehicle

Ted (Anon., n.d.)-4WS
autonomous vehicle

Orchard
application

Grape orchard—
chemical weeding

Grape orchard—
chemical weeding

Grape orchard—
chemical weeding

Grape orchard—
chemical weeding

Grape orchard—
chemical weeding

Vineyard—
multipurpose

Grape orchard—
mechanical
weeding

Vision system

Multispectral

Camera, normalized difference
vegetation index (NDVI)

RGB camera and laser

(Foliage Detection Algorithm—
(FDA) and Grape clusters
Detection Algorithms—(GDA)
algorithms)

RGB camera and LiDAR (Light
Detecting and Ranging) (FDA
and GDA algorithms)

RGB camera and LiDAR (FDA
and GDA algorithms)

–

Obstacle detection—Ultrasonic
sensor

RGB camera

Navigation

IMU and GPS

–

–

–

GNSS (Global
Navigation
Satellite System)

(Real-Time
Kinematic)-RTK
GNSS

GPS

RTK/GPS

(Centimetric
precision)

With the progress in new research, machine vision and robotic
technologies                                              are slowly becoming more reliable and 
human friendly.

With all precautions, robotic systems with deep neural networks using
a                                         combination of machine vision will replace humans and 
generate
promising results by considering the factors discussed above.

17.6 Autonomous Robots for Harvesting Fruits in
Orchards


Manual fruit picking is a tedious task in regard to large-scale orchard
harvesting. Successive repetition of the same task causes

musculoskeletal pain, disorders, and back pain in labors. If the canopies
are                                               high, laborers must use ladders; then, the risk 
of accidents is high
because they must come down the ladder each time the bucket is full to
ensure that the fruits remain in the collector (Fathallah, 2010).

Currently, semiautomated vehicles have been used for orchard fruit
harvesting, which facilitate a platform for human laborers to easily
harvest the fruits by shaking and collection. The other type is an

autonomous human-driven vehicle with a robotic platform to harvest
the                                             fruits. The third type is a fully autonomous 
vehicle and robotic
platform. For juice making, the ideal method is to shake the tree and
collect the fruits that are already commercialized (Zhang, 2017). The
robotic harvesting of fruits without damage is more suitable for the

fresh market.

Robotic harvesting of orchard fruits is a challenging task, and the
identification and recognition of fruits in canopies are very important.
Localization of individual fruits helps manipulators easily pick fruits;
fruits, especially apples, grow in clusters under real environmental

conditions (Baeten et al., 2008; Bulanon et al., 2002).

The primary task of robotic harvesting is to detect the target fruit
under real conditions. For this task, different features have been used,
for example, color, texture, shape, size, and edge detection. These
parameters                                             are then analyzed using neural networks and 
classification
methods (Silwal et al., 2014). However, the main problems have

occurred in the real-time detection of fruits and branches. Designing
grippers for a single fruit is a common practice based on the physical

shape and the properties of the fruit, but the problem is how to address
fruit                                             clusters.

The convex hull technique was introduced to identify individual
citrus                                             fruits from fruit clusters and individual fruit 
center points as a
method to overcome fruit clustering (Changhui et al., 2017) . In

addition to fruit clustering, the other main challenge is the operation of
the robotic arm under variable lighting conditions. As a form of

remediation, different techniques have been introduced for image
segmentation and classification, and Retinex theory is an innovative


method to minimize lightning problems (McCann, 2014). Using this
approach, the image enhancement method combines the Retinex
principle and wavelet transform (Wang et al., 2017). Table 17.4
illustrates some of the fruit detection methods and their results in
terms of specific applications and techniques.

Table 17.4 Some of the fruit detection and identification methods and their
accuracy

Application         Machine vision system          Accuracy of

identification


Apple detection (“Gala”
and “Blondee”) (Chu et
al., 2021)

Identification of cutting
points of grape clusters
(Luo et al., 2018)

Detection of cheery
branch shaking locations
(Amatya et al., 2017)

Detection of pears and
apples (Font et al., 2014)

Red apple separation
from the image (Ji et al.,
2012)

Identification of green
apples (Linker et al.,
2012)

Identify and count green
citrus (Kurtulmus et al.,
2011)

Outdoor apple detection
in canopy images

Novel suppression Mask R-CNN

Segmentation algorithm, geometric
model, profile analysis, computational
method-for identify the cutting points

Bumblebee® XB3 camera, (ToF) based
3D camera—depth values, branch pixel,
and cherry pixel-based detection of
branches

Minoru 3D USB Webcam, laser pointed
red cross method

Image segmentation based on region
growth and color feature (classification
algorithm—support vector machine)

Color and smoothness-based model

Eigenface algorithm (Sirovich & Kirby,
1987) (color intensity, saturation
combine with circular Gabor texture)

Blob analysis

Circular Hough Transform (CHT)

F1—0.905 detection time

0.25 s per frame

Average recognition
accuracy—88.33%

Cutting points detection
(double overlapping
clusters)—81.66%

Three shakings of target
branches—Y-trellis system

—efficiency of 92.3%

Vertical trellis—efficiency
86.4%

Average distance error—
4% to 5%

30% average diameter error
Recognition—89%

Average recognition time—
352 ms

Identification—85%

Citrus fruit detection—
75.3%

Apple detection—89%


Application

(Stajnko et al., 2009)

Machine vision system

Accuracy of
identification

The fruit canopy is a complex structure, and occlusion is another
point                                               at which robotic manipulators fail, although 
the identification is
accurate. Figure 17.12 shows the apple harvesting robot performing the
manipulation task under normal orchard conditions with a robotic arm
with a high degree of freedom. Reaching the detected fruits inside the

canopy is challenging, and the robotic arm either misses the target fruit
or fails to complete the manipulator operation because of the branches
and                                              fruit clusters. As a solution, pruning is the 
practice of maintaining a
simple standard orchard structure, which helps manipulators easily

reach the detected target fruit.

Fig. 17.12 Orange harvesting using multiple robotic arms with a higher
number of DoFs

The reduction of several degrees of freedom and the complexity of
the robotic structure may lead to an easy operation, low cost, and easy


maintenance. Figure 17.13 illustrates the harvesting robot with a
smaller number of degree freedom robots that operated in a well-
maintained orchard with specially trained trees.

Fig. 17.13  Possible methods for harvesting oranges using multiple robotic
arms with fewer DoFs

Meanwhile, trained orchard systems help with manual labor as well.

Y-trellis tall spindle orchard training systems have been developed to
improve the productivity of labor and yield. These orchard

architectures help laborers perform all management tasks in the field
while                                            providing high-quality fruits (Robinson et al., 
2007; Bergerman et
al., 2012).


Accurate and precisely determining harvesting indices is important
to                                          harvest fruits with less damage, which in turn assures 
the economic
stability of the orchard, as high-quality fruits sell for higher prices in

the market. However, most of the existing fruit harvesters (i.e., target

fruit harvesters) fail to achieve this purpose. As a remediation method,
scientists have developed yield estimation robots to identify the yield
before harvesting (Table 17.5).

Table 17.5 Existing yield estimation robots


Robot

Kubota farm
vehicle (Lowe et
al., 2021)

Agrob V16 (Reis et
al., 2018)

Shrimp (Bargoti &
Underwood,
2017)

Agrob V14 (Santos
et al., 2016)

VINBOT (Lopes et
al., 2016)

AgriBOT (Abrahão
et al., 2011)

VineRobot (Anon.,
n.d.)

Orchard
application

Grape-yield
estimation

Grape-yield
estimation

Apple-yield
estimation

Grape-yield
estimation

Grape-yield
estimation

Orange-yield
estimation

Grape-yield
estimation

Vision system

LiDAR

Continuous-Time
Simultaneous Localization and
Mapping (SLAM)

RGB-D and RGB cameras
Local Binary Pattern-

histogram (hLBP) and Support

Vector Machine (SVM)-
algorithms

RGB camera (multilayer
perceptron)-MLP and CNN
algorithms

RGB camera

Support Vector Machine
(SVM)-algorithm

RGB and (near-infrared) NIR
cameras-NDVI algorithm

RGB camera

RGB camera
Ultrasonic sensors

FA-Sense LEAF, FA-Sense
ANTH

Navigation

GPS and IMU

RTK/GPS/(Inertial
Navigation System)-INS
and LiDAR

–

LiDAR

RTK, DGPS, and LiDAR
GPS/INS

–

An autonomous robotic harvester is usually comprised of a vision
system for detecting and locating the fruit; a manipulator that moves


the gripper to the identified target; and an end effector, usually a
gripper, which is designed for detaching the fruit. To date, several

researchers have attempted to develop autonomous harvesters with
different                                            grippers and manipulators using vision 
systems. These
applications have their limits. Despite the considerable efforts made by
both the government and private sector in developing commercially
successful harvesters for orchard crops, research and development in

this area are gradually but steadily progressing.

Once the manipulator successfully reaches the target fruit based on
3D                                          coordinates from the sensors, the gripper or the end 
effector should
detach the fruit without causing any damage. The fruits are not always
equal in size, and the skin may be fragile; therefore, the key features of
the gripper should be minimizing the damage and detaching the fruit

from the stem. Silicon rubber bionic concept-based soft robotics have
become                                            popular because of their adaptive ability and 
infinite freedom.
Soft gripping of fruit is a key task because the final goal of robotic
harvesting is to obtain undamaged fruits, providing support for newly
emerging 3D printing combined with super-elastic silica gel to create
new soft grippers (Pi et al., 2021).

Another novel apple gripping technique was introduced by the
Abundant Robotics Company, which used a vacuum suction gripper.

The suction gripper sucks the apples with high pressure; however, due
to                                               the high suction pressure, it also sucks the 
leaves that touch the

fruits (Simonite, 2017).

It is essential to identify the target fruits for harvest must be
identified                                            before the use of robotic arms for 
harvesting. Table 17.6
shows some of the fruit identification applications and their success
rates. If the detection point is readable, x, y, and z coordinates are
shown, then the robotic arm with the gripper is moved to that target
point. A citrus harvesting robot has been developed after several

attempts (Rabatel et al., 1995). Table 17.7 illustrates some orchard fruit
harvesting robots and their applications.

Table 17.6 Examples of the end effectors developed or orchard fruit grasping


Gripper/end effector

Gripper to analyze the forces (bending, cutting resistant) (Bu et al., 2020)
Soft finger-based gripper (Kang et al., 2020)

Bite mode end effector, pneumatic operation (Wang et al., 2019)

Gripper with four fingers (Onishi et al., 2019)

Pneumatic operated, 3D-printed soft end effector (Hohimer et al., 2019)
Vacuum Suction gripper (Simonite, 2017)

Bionic gripper, operated using stepper motor (Longtao et al., 2017)

Opening span type, tendon-driven fingers, three fingers, soft polyurethane
pads, and springs in the joints for return action (Silwal et al., 2017)

Three fingers (Davidson et al., 2016)

Spooned shaped gripper, two fingers, shear cutting, three sensors—collision,
pressure, position sensors (De-An et al., 2011)

Pendule holder with fingers/Fuji apples (Bulanon & Kataoka, 2010)

Flexible gripper, silicone funnel shaped (10.5 cm diameter), vacuum suction
(Baeten et al., 2008)

Orchard
application

Apple Harvesting
Apple Harvesting

Orange
Harvesting

Apple Harvesting
Apple Harvesting
Apple Harvesting

Kiwifruit
Harvesting

Apple Harvesting

Apple Harvesting
Apple Harvesting

Apple Harvesting
Apple Harvesting

Table 17.7 Existing orchard fruit harvesting robots


Robot

Apple harvesting
robot (Kang et al.,
2020)

Kiwi fruit
harvesting—
multiple   robotic
arms (Williams et
al., 2019; Barnett et
al., 2020)

Apple harvesting
robot (Silwal et al.,
2017)

Orchard
application

Apple
harvesting

Operation time
for one cycle—
7s

Kiwi fruit
harvesting

Harvesting
success 51.0%

Average cycle
time of 5.5s

Apple
harvesting—

Vision system

RGB-D camera, Dasnet, 3D-SHT, and
Octree

F1: 0.81

Baslar ac1920-40uc USB 3.0 stereo
cameras, fully convolutional network
(FCN), semantic segmentation, blob
detector, developed novel dynamic
scheduling algorithm

Circular Hough Transformation
(CHT), Blob Analysis (BA)

Manipulator

6-DoF

Four, 3-axis
articulated robotic
arms

6-DoF with
prismatic base


Robot

Citrus harvesting
robot (Mehta &
Burks, 2014)

Apple harvesting
robot (De-An et al.,
2011)

Autonomous Fruit
Picking Machine
(AFPM) (Baeten et
al., 2008)

Orchard
application

the success
rate of 84%

Average
localization
time     1.5 s

Average
picking time
6  s

Citrus
harvesting

Apple
harvesting

Success rate
77%

Average cycle
time 15 s

Apple
harvesting

Success rate
80%

Vision system

Apple prioritization—traveling
salesman problem (TSP) with the
Nearest Neighbor algorithm. Global
camera system. Circular Hough
Transformation (CHT). CCD (Charged
Couple Device) and color camera
(Prosilica GC1290C, AVT
Technologies)

Two color CCD cameras (KT & C,
KPCS20-CP1), Lyapunov-based
stability analysis-manipulator
control

Image-based Vision Servo (IBVS),
CCD camera, vector median filter,
Hue Intensity and Saturation (HIS)
model, feature extraction—Rotation,
Scale, and Translation (RST)

Camera mounted center of the
gripper, image processing—Halcon
software

Manipulator

7-DoF

5-DoF structure

Industrial robot
(Panasonic
VR006L), mounted
on four-wheel
tractor

17.7 Discussion

Different climatic conditions and management options in different

regions are some of the critical factors that hinder the development of
common harvesters. Moreover, robotic applications for biological

materials are far more complicated, as biological materials do not act as
we expected. For example, the analysis of fruit size by the robotic

platform developer may deviate under real conditions due to the
presence                                               of obstacles such as branches, overlapping 
fruits, and fruit


orientation. Therefore, recent developments in machine vision and
artificial                                         intelligence programs have focused more on 
identifying and
distinguishing obstacles in robotic harvesting. The combination of
machine vision and artificial intelligence is an innovative approach to
address the labor shortage while training robots as skilled laborers.

If the manipulator operation can be simplified by reducing the

number of degrees of freedom, then the operation time for one cycle
will                                               be reduced, the maintenance cost is decreased, 
and the safe

operation for both people working in the orchard and for robots will be
safer. Therefore, the overall efficiency, effectiveness, and robustness will
be increased and economically feasible for commercial manufacturing,
as indicated in the 3D view shown in Fig. 17.14. The combination of 3D
vision and newly introduced horticultural architectural training
methods, such as trellis systems, allows smooth guidance of the
machine vision and robotic manipulators to the target fruits.

Fig. 17.14 3D views of a robotic arm with (a) multiple degrees of freedom and

(b) a lower number of degrees of freedom

Specifying robotic arms for a specific task is the next task, as
discussed                                                 in the preceding sections. Of course, the 
robotic arms should
be specific to pruning, thinning, spraying, and harvesting, but here, the


focus is the possibility of specifying robotic manipulators in each
individual                                             section where the canopy is fully maintained 
under standard
orchard architectural conditions.

17.8 Conclusions

Orchard management practices extensively depend on seasonal labor,
which is costly and scarce. Improvement in task-specific robots, which
are robust, economically, and technically achievable for at least
medium-scale orchard farmers, is essential for replacing manual labor.
Adapting robotic platforms that may replace the use of human laborers
will avoid this problem while achieving greater efficiency and

productivity in orchard operations. Recently, robotic applications for
orchard management have increased rapidly along with the

development of new, robust technologies. Both the government and
organizations in the private sector are trying to develop low-cost

robotic applications that can be adopted at the field level and are
compatible with farmers. However, difficulties encountered in

simplifying the robotic operations to the level that is easily managed by
the farmers have hindered the commercial success of automated

orchard management. As discussed in the preceding sections, pruning,
thinning, spraying, and harvesting are major management practices
involved in orchard management. The manipulator and the end effector
are the critical operational units that should be specific for orchard

operations. The existing technologies may lead the robotic
manipulators to the unstructured thick canopy to reach the target
locations, but the robotic system may become complex with an

additional degree of freedom and sensors. Meanwhile, those systems
require                                               huge computational capacities for processing 
data in real time,
which would not be a method to commercialize them for farmers or

medium-scale operations. The identification of target locations has now
become                                                easy with the development of 3D sensor 
systems and the

integration neural networks and classification methods. In the case of
harvesting, few robotic arms are attached to a single autonomous
platform, and each robotic arm covers different areas or covers specific
tasks with a smaller number of degrees of freedom, which has immense


potential to be adopted with the prime mover as attachments with

lower costs and less complexity. The total system should be available as
an                                          attachment to a four-wheel tractor or an autonomous 
platform with
task-specific interchangeable manipulators. Therefore, simple robots
with a smaller number of degrees of freedom seem to be the most

promising solution.

Acknowledgement

The authors highly appreciate the financial assistance provided by

MEXT scholarship and the Japan Leader Empowerment Program (JLEP)
for                                                 the first author in conducting the doctoral 
program which leads for
compiling this chapter.

References

Aasted, M. M., Dise, R. J., Baugher, T. A., Schupp, J. R., Heinemann, P. H., & Singh,

S. (2011). Autonomous mechanical thinning using scanning LIDAR. In ASABE
Annual International Meeting (p. 1111792). https://doi.org/10.13031/2013.
38170

Abrahão, G. S., Megda, P. T., Guerrero, H. B., & Becker, M. (2011). AgriBOT
project: Comparison between the D* and focussed D* navigation algorithms. In
International Congress of Mechanical Engineering—COBEM, Natal, Brazil (pp. 24–
28).

Abutalipov, R. N., Bolgov, Y. V., & Senov, H. M. (2016). Flowering plants
pollination robotic system for greenhouses by means of nano copter (drone
aircraft).  In 2016 IEEE Conference on Quality Management, Transport and
Information Security, Information Technologies (IT & MQ & IS) (pp. 7–9). https://
doi.org/10.1109/ITMQIS.2016.7751907

Adamides, G., Katsanos, C., Constantinou, I., Christou, G., Xenos, M., Hadzilacos,
T., & Edan, Y. (2017). Design and development of a semi-autonomous
agricultural vineyard sprayer: Human–robot interaction aspects. Journal of Field
Robotics, 34(8), 1407–1426. https://doi.org/10.1002/rob.21721

[Crossref]

Aggelopoulou, A. D., Bochtis, D., Fountas, S., Swain, K. C., Gemtos, T. A., &
Nanos, G. D. (2011). Yield prediction in apple orchards based on image


processing. Precision Agriculture, 12(3), 448–456. https://doi.org/10.1007/
s11119-010-9187-0

[Crossref]

Akbar, S. A., Chattopadhyay, S., Elfiky, N. M., & Kak, A. (2016). A novel
benchmark RGBD dataset for dormant apple trees and its application to
automatic pruning. In IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern
Recognition Workshops (CVPRW) (pp. 347–354). https://doi.org/10.1109/
CVPRW.2016.50

Amatya, S., Karkee, M., Zhang, Q., & Whiting, M. D. (2017). Automated detection
of branch shaking locations for robotic cherry harvesting using machine vision.

Robotics, 6(4), 31. https://doi.org/10.3390/robotics6040031
[Crossref]

Baeten, J., Donné, K., Boedrij, S., Beckers, W., & Claesen , E. (2008).

Autonomous fruit picking machine: A robotic apple harvester. In Field and

service robotics: Springer tracts in advanced robotics (pp. 531–539). Springer.
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-540-75404-6_51

Balsari, P., & Tamagnone, M. (1998). An ultrasonic airblast sprayer. In

Proceedings of EurAgEng International Conference of Agricultural Engineering (pp.
585–586). EurAgEng.

Bargoti, S., & Underwood, J. P. (2017). Image segmentation for fruit detection
and yield estimation in apple orchards. Journal of Field Robotics, 34(6), 1039–
1060. https://doi.org/10.1002/rob.21699

[Crossref]

Barnett, J., Seabright, M., Williams, H., Nejati, M., Scarfe, A., Bell, J., Jones, M. H.,
Martinsen, P., Schaare, P., & Duke, M. (2017). Robotic Pollination-Targeting
kiwifruit flowers for commercial application. In PA17 International Tri-

Conference for Precision Agriculture, Hamilton, New Zealand.

Barnett, J., Duke, M., Au, C. K., & Lim, S. H. (2020). Work distribution of multiple
Cartesian robot arms for kiwifruit harvesting. Computers and Electronics in

Agriculture, 169, 105202. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.2019.105202
[Crossref]

Berenstein, R., & Edan, Y. (2018). Automatic adjustable spraying device for site-
specific agricultural application. IEEE Transactions on Automation Science and

Engineering, 15(2), 641–650. https://doi.org/10.1109/TASE.2017.2656143


[Crossref]

Berenstein, R., Shahar, O. B., Shapiro, A., & Edan, Y. (2010). Grape clusters and
foliage detection algorithms for autonomous selective vineyard sprayer.

Intelligent Service Robotics, 3, 233–243. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11370-010-
0078-z

[Crossref]

Bergerman, M., Singh, S., & Hamner, B. (2012). Results with autonomous
vehicles operating in specialty crops. In 2012 IEEE International Conference on
Robotics and Automation (pp. 1829–1835). https://doi.org/10.1109/ICRA.

2012.6225150

Bogue, R. (2016). Robots poised to revolutionise agriculture. Industrial Robot:
An International Journal, 43(5), 450–456.

[Crossref]

Brandtberg, T., Warner, T. A., Landenberger, R. E., & McGraw, J. B. (2003).
Detection and analysis of individual leaf-off tree crowns in small footprint, high
sampling density LIDAR data from the eastern deciduous forest in North
America. Remote Sensing of Environment, 85, 290–303.

[Crossref]

Bu, L., Hu, G., Chen, C., Sugirbay, A., & Chen, J. (2020). Experimental and
simulation analysis of optimum picking patterns for robotic apple harvesting.
Scientia Horticulturae, 261, 108937. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.scienta.2019.

108937

[Crossref]

Bucksch, A., & Fleck, S. (2011). Automated detection of branch dimensions in
woody skeletons of fruit tree canopies. Photogrammetric Engineering and
Remote Sensing, 77, 229–240. https://doi.org/10.14358/PERS.77.3.229
[Crossref]

Bulanon, D. M., & Kataoka, T. (2010). Fruit detection system and an end effector
for robotic harvesting of Fuji apples. Agricultural Engineering International: CIGR
Journal, 12(1), 203–210.

Bulanon, D. M., Kataoka, T., Ota, Y., & Hiroma, T. (2002). AE—Automation and
Emerging Technologies: Segmentation algorithm for the automatic recognition
of Fuji apples. Biosystems Engineering, 83(4), 405–412.

[Crossref]


Bü ttgen, B., Oggier, T., Lehmann, M., Kaufmann, R., & Lustenberger, F. (2005).
CCD/CMOS lock-in pixel for range imaging: Challenges, limitations and state-
of-the-art. In Proceedings of 1st Range Imaging Research Day (pp. 21–32).

Changhui, Y., Youcheng, H., Lin, H., Sa , L., & Yanping, L. (2017). Overlapped fruit
recognition for citrus harvesting robot in natural scenes. In 2nd International

Conference on Robotics and Automation Engineering (ICRAE) (pp. 398–402).
https://doi.org/10.1109/ICRAE.2017.8291418

Chattopadhyay, S., Akbar, S. A., Elfiky, N. M., Medeiros, H., & Kak, A. (2016).
Measuring and modeling apple trees using time-of-flight data for automation of
dormant pruning applications. In 2016 IEEE Winter Conference on Applications of
Computer Vision (WACV) (pp. 1–9). https://doi.org/10.1109/WACV.2016.

7477596

Chen, S. W., Shivakumar, S. S., Dcunha, S., Das, J., Okon, E., Qu, C., Taylor, C. J., &
Kumar, V. (2017). Counting apples and oranges with deep learning. IEEE

Robotics and Automation Letters, 2(2), 781–788. https://doi.org/10.1109/LRA.
2017.2651944

[Crossref]

Cheng, Z.-L., Zhang, X.-P., & Chen, B.-Q. (2007). Simple reconstruction of tree
branches from a single range image. Journal of Computer Science and Technology,
22, 846–858. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11390-007-9095-6

[Crossref]

Chu, P., Li, V., Lammers, K., Lu, R., & Liu, X. (2021). DeepApple: Deep learning-
based apple detection using a suppression mask R-CNN. Pattern Recognition

Letters, 147, 206–211. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.patrec.2021.04.022
[Crossref]

Costes, E., Lauri, P. E., & Regnard, J. L. (2006). Analyzing fruit tree architecture:
Implications for tree management and fruit production. Horticultural Reviews,
32,    1–61.

Davidson, J. R., Silwal, A., Hohimer, C. J., Karkee, M., Mo, C., & Zhang, Q. (2016).
Proof-of-concept of a robotic apple harvester. In IEEE/RSJ International

Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS) (pp. 634–639). https://doi.
org/10.1109/IROS.2016.7759119


De-An, Z., Jidong, L., Wei, J., Ying, Z., & Yu, C. (2011). Design and control of an
apple harvesting robot. Biosystems Engineering, 110(2), 112–122. https://doi.
org/10.1016/j.biosystemseng.2011.07.005

[Crossref]

Dias, P. A., Tabb, A., & Medeiros, H. (2018). Apple flower detection using deep
convolutional networks. Computers in Industry, 99, 17–28. https://doi.org/10.
1016/j.compind.2018.03.010

[Crossref]

Edan, Y., Flash, T., Peiper, U. M., Shmulevich, I., & Sarig, Y. (1991). Near-
minimum-time task planning for fruit-picking robots. IEEE Transactions on
Robotics and Automation, 7(1), 48–56.

[Crossref]

Elfiky, N. M., Akbar, S. A., Sun, J., Park, J., & Kak, A. (2015). Automation of
dormant pruning in specialty crop production: An adaptive framework for
automatic reconstruction and modeling of apple trees. In IEEE Conference on
Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition Workshops (CVPRW) (pp. 65–73).
https://doi.org/10.1109/CVPRW.2015.7301298

Emery, K. G., Faubion, D. M., Walsh, C. S., & Tao, Y. (2010). Development of 3-D
range imaging system to scan peach branches for selective robotic blossom
thinning. In American Society of Agricultural and Biological Engineers Annual
International Meeting, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania: ASABE 2010. https://doi.org/
10.13031/2013.29828

FAO. (2020). Statistical year book. FAO.

Fathallah, F. A. (2010). Musculoskeletal disorders in labor-intensive
agriculture. Applied Ergonomics, 41(6), 738–743. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
apergo.2010.03.003

[Crossref][PubMed]

Fetzer, L. (2017). Penn State Extension-orchard safety: Tips for safe pruning.
Retrieved April 15, 2022, from https://extension.psu.edu/orchard-pruning-
safety-tips

Feucht, J. R., & Larsen, H. (2009). Training and pruning fruit trees. Colorado State
University: In Colorado State University Extension; Fact Sheet No. 7.003.


Font, D., Pallejà, T., Tresanchez, M., Runcan, D., Moreno, J., Martı́nez, D., Teixidó ,
M., & Palacı́n, J. (2014). A proposal for automatic fruit harvesting by combining
a low cost stereovision camera and a robotic arm. Sensors, 14(7), 11557–
11579. https://doi.org/10.3390/s140711557

[Crossref][PubMed][PubMedCentral]

Gallardo, K., Taylor, M., & Hinman, H. (2011). Cost estimates of establishing and
producing Gala apples in Washington. Washington State University. Retrieved
April 15, 2022, from https://pubs.extension.wsu.edu/2009-cost-estimates-of-
establishing-and-producing-gala-apples-in-washington

Gebbers, R., Pflanz, M., Betz, A., Hille, B., Mattner, J., Autrum, T. R., Ö zyurtlu, M.,
Schischmanow, A., Scheele, M., Schrenk, J., & Schrenk, L. (2013). OptiThin—
Implementation of precision horticulture by tree-specific mechanical thinning.
In G.-J. i. Potsdam (Ed.), Massendatenmanagement in Der Agrar- Und

Ern{ä}hrungswirtschaft (pp. 95–98).

Giles, D. K., Delwiche, M. J., & Dodd, R. B. (1987). Control of orchard spraying
based on electronic sensing of target characteristics. Transactions of the ASAE,
30(6), 1624–1630.

[Crossref]

Giles, D. K., Delwiche, M. J., & Dodd, R. B. (1988). Electronic measurement of
tree canopy volume. Transactions of the ASAE, 31(1), 264–272.

[Crossref]

Häni, N., Roy, P., & Isler, V. (2018). Apple counting using convolutional neural
networks. In IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems
(IROS) (pp. 2559–2565). https://doi.org/10.1109/IROS.2018.8594304

Hansen, M. (2011). Good fruit grower. Retrieved April 5, 2022, from https://
www.goodfruit.com/fruiting-walls-suit-machinery/

He, L., & Schupp, J. (2018). Sensing and automation in pruning of apple trees: A
review. Agronomy, 8(10), 211. https://doi.org/10.3390/agronomy8100211
[Crossref]

Hočevar, M., Sˇirok, B., Godeša, T., & Stopar, M. (2014). Flowering estimation in
apple orchards by image analysis. Precision Agriculture, 15, 466–478. https://
doi.org/10.1007/s11119-013-9341-6

[Crossref]


Hohimer, C. J., Wang, H., Bhusal, S., Miller, J., Mo, C., & Karkee, M. (2019). Design
and field evaluation of a robotic apple harvesting system with a 3D-printed

soft-robotic end effector. Transactions of the ASABE, 62(2), 405–414. https://
doi.org/10.13031/trans.12986

[Crossref]

Horton, R., Cano, E., Bulanon, D., & Fallahi, E. (2017). Peach flower monitoring
using aerial multispectral imaging. Journal of Imaging, 3(1), 2. https://doi.org/
10.3390/jimaging3010002

[Crossref]

Jähne, B., Haußecker, H., & Geißler, P. (1999). In B. Jähne, H. Haußecker, & P.
Geißler (Eds.), Handbook of computer vision and applications (Vol. 1–2).

Academic Press.

Jeon, H. Y., Zhu, H., Derksen, R., Ozkan, E., & Krause, C. (2011). Evaluation of
ultrasonic sensor for variable-rate spray applications. Computers and Electronics
in Agriculture, 75(1), 213–221. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.2010.11.007
[Crossref]

Ji, W., Zhao, D., Cheng, B. X., Zhang, Y., & Wang, J. (2012). Automatic recognition
vision system guided for apple harvesting robot. Computers & Electrical

Engineering, 38(5), 1186–1195. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compeleceng.2011.

11.005

[Crossref]

Kang, F., Wang, H., Pierce, F. J., Zhang, Q., & Wang, S. (2012). Sucker detection of
grapevines for targeted spray using optical sensors. Transactions of the ASABE,
55(5), 2007–2014.

[Crossref]

Kang, H., Zhou, H., & Chen, C. (2020). Visual perception and modeling for
autonomous apple harvesting. IEEE Access, 8, 62151–62163. https://doi.org/
10.1109/ACCESS.2020.2984556

[Crossref]

Karkee, M., & Adhikari, B. (2015). A method for three-dimensional
reconstruction of apple trees for automated pruning. Transactions of the ASABE,
58(3), 565–574. https://doi.org/10.13031/trans.58.10799

[Crossref]


Karkee, M., Adhikari, B., Amatya, S., & Zhang, Q. (2014). Identification of
pruning branches in tall spindle apple trees for automated pruning. Computers
and Electronics in Agriculture, 103, 127–135. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
compag.2014.02.013

[Crossref]

Kim, J., Kim, S., Ju, C., & Son, H. I. (2019). Unmanned aerial vehicles in
agriculture: A review of perspective of platform, control, and applications. IEEE
Access,  7, 105100–105115. https://doi.org/10.1109/ACCESS.2019.2932119
[Crossref]

Kurtulmus, F., Lee, W. S., & Vardar, A. (2011). Green citrus detection using
‘eigenfruit’, color and circular Gabor texture features under natural outdoor
conditions. Computers and Electronics in Agriculture, 78(2), 140–149. https://
doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.2011.07.001

[Crossref]

Lange, R. (2000). Time-of-flight distance measurement with solid-state image
sensors in CMOS/CCD-technology. University of Siegen.

Lehnert, R. (2012). Good fruit grower. Retrieved April 13, 2022, from https://
www.goodfruit.com/robotic-pruning/

Linker, R., Cohen, O., & Naor, A. (2012). Determination of the number of green
apples in RGB images recorded in orchards. Computers and Electronics in

Agriculture, 81, 45–57. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.2011.11.007
[Crossref]

Liu, H., & Zhu, H. (2016). Evaluation of a laser scanning sensor in detection of
complex-shaped targets for variable-rate sprayer development. Transactions of
the ASABE, 59(5), 1181–1192.

[Crossref]

Longtao, M., Yadong, L., Yongjie, C., Haibin, L., Lipeng, C., Longsheng , F., &
Yoshinori, G. (2017). Design of end-effector for Kiwifruit Harvesting Robot
Experiment. In An ASABE Meeting Presentation. https://doi.org/10.13031/aim.
201700666

Lopes, C., Graça, J., Sastre, J., Reyes, M., Guzman, R., Braga, R., Monteiro, A., &
Pinto, P. (2016). Vineyard yield estimation by Vinbot robot-preliminary results


with the white variety Viosinho. In 11th International Terroir Congress,
McMinnville, Oregon. https://doi.org/10.13140/RG.2.1.3912.0886

Lowe, T., Moghadam, P., Edwards, E., & Williams, J. (2021). Canopy density
estimation in perennial horticulture crops using 3D spinning lidar SLAM.

Journal of Field Robotics, 38(4), 598–618. https://doi.org/10.1002/rob.22006
[Crossref]

Luo, L., Tang, Y., Lu, Q., Chen, X., Zhang, P., & Zou, X. (2018). A vision
methodology for harvesting robot to detect cutting points on peduncles of
double overlapping grape clusters in a vineyard. Computers in Industry, 99, 130–

139. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compind.2018.03.017
[Crossref]

Lyons, D. J., Heinemann, P. H., Schupp, J. R., Baugher, T. A., & Liu, J. (2015).
Development of a selective automated blossom thinning system for peaches.
Transactions of the ASABE, 58(6), 1447–1457. https://doi.org/10.13031/trans.
58.11138

[Crossref]

Maccarrone, G., & Scienza, A. (1998). Valutazione della struttura fogliare delle
forma di allevamento della vite per ottimizzare i trattamenti. Vignevini, 5, 46–
48.

Mahdi, H. S., & Abdolabbas, J. (2017). Designing an algorithm for pruning
grapevine based on 3D image processing. Iranian Journal of Biosystems

Engineering (Iranian Journal of Agricultural Sciences), 48(3), 289–297.

Martn, B., Gutiérrez, A., & Molto, E. (2001). Pesticide loss reduction by
automatic adaptation of spraying on globular trees. Journal of Agricultural
Engineering Research, 78, 35–41.

McCann, J. (2014). Retinex theory. Encyclopedia of Color Science and
Technology.

Medeiros, H., Kim, D., Sun, J., Seshadri, H., Akbar, S. A., Elfiky, N. M., & Park, J.
(2017). Modeling dormant fruit trees for agricultural automation. Journal of
Field Robotics, 34(7), 1203–1224. https://doi.org/10.1002/rob.21679
[Crossref]

Mehta, S. S., & Burks, T. F. (2014). Vision-based control of robotic manipulator
for citrus harvesting. Computers and Electronics in Agriculture, 102, 146–158.


https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.2014.01.003
[Crossref]

Méndez, V., Rosell-Polo, J. R., Sanz, R., Escolà, A., & Catalán, H. (2014).
Deciduous tree reconstruction algorithm based on cylinder fitting from mobile
terrestrial laser scanned point clouds. Biosystems Engineering, 124, 78–88.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.biosystemseng.2014.06.001

[Crossref]

Nielsen, M., Slaughter, D. C., & Gliever, C. (2012). Vision-based 3D peach tree
reconstruction for automated blossom thinning. IEEE Transactions on Industrial
Informatics, 8(1), 188–196. https://doi.org/10.1109/TII.2011.2166780
[Crossref]

Oberti, R., Marchi, M., Tirelli, P., Calcante, A., Iriti, M., Tona, E., Hočevar, M., Baur,
J., Pfaff, J., Schü tz, C., & Ulbrich, H. (2016). Selective spraying of grapevines for
disease control using a modular agricultural robot. Biosystems Engineering, 146,
203–215. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.biosystemseng.2015.12.004

[Crossref]

Onishi, Y., Yoshida, T., Kurita, H., Fukao, T., Arihara, H., & Iwai, A. (2019). An
automated fruit harvesting robot by using deep learning. ROBOMECH Journal, 6,

13. https://doi.org/10.1186/s40648-019-0141-2
[Crossref]

Pi, J., Liu, J., Zhou, K., & Qian, M. (2021). An octopus-inspired bionic flexible
gripper for apple grasping. Agriculture, 11(10), 1014. https://doi.org/10.3390/
agriculture11101014

[Crossref]

Prusinkiewicz, P., Hammel, M., Hanan, J., & Mech, R. (1990). L-systems: From
the theory to visual models of plants. In Proceedings of the 2nd CSIRO Symposium
on Computational Challenges in Life Sciences (Vol. 3, pp. 1–32). Citeseer.

Rabatel, G., Bourely, A., Sevila, F., & Juste, F. (1995). Robotic harvesting of
citrus: State-of-art and development of the French Spanish EUREKA Project. In
International conference Harvest and Postharvest Technologies for Fresh Fruits and
Vegetables, Guanajuato, Mexico (pp. 232–239).

Reis, R., Mendes, J., Santos, F. N., Morais, R., Ferraz, N., Santos, L., & Sousa, A.
(2018). Redundant robot localization system based in wireless sensor
network. In Proceedings of the 2018 IEEE International Conference on Autonomous


Robot Systems and Competitions (ICARSC), Torres Vedras, Portugal (pp. 154–
159).

Robinson, T. L., DeMarree, A. M., & Hoying, S. A. (2007). An economic
comparison of five high density apple planting systems. In VIII International
Symposium on Canopy, Rootstocks and Environmental Physiology in Orchard
Systems (pp. 481–490). ISHS Acta Horticulturae 732. https://doi.org/10.

17660/ActaHortic.2007.732.73

Sansavini, S. (1976). Mechanical pruning of fruit trees. Symposium on High

Density Planting, 65, 183–198. https://doi.org/10.17660/ActaHortic.1978.65.

28

[Crossref]

Santos, T., & Ueda, J. (2013). Automatic 3D plant reconstruction from
photographies, segmentation and classification of leaves and internodes using
clustering.  In Embrapa Informática Agropecuária-Resumo em anais de congresso
(ALICE). Finnish Society of Forest Science.

Santos, F. N., Sobreira, H., Campos, D., Morais, R., Moreira, A. P., & Contente, O.
(2016). Towards a reliable robot for steep slope vineyards monitoring. Journal
of Intelligent & Robotic Systems, 83, 429–444. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10846-
016-0340-5

[Crossref]

Sarri, D., Martelloni, L., Rimediotti, M., Lisci, R., Lombardo, S., & Vieri, M.
(2019). Testing a multi-rotor unmanned aerial vehicle for spray application in
high slope terraced vineyard. Journal of Agricultural Engineering, 50(1), 38–47.
https://doi.org/10.4081/jae.2019.853

[Crossref]

Schupp, J. R., & Baugher, T. A. (2011). Peach blossom string thinner
performance improved with selective pruning. HortScience, 46(11), 1486–1492.
https://doi.org/10.21273/HORTSCI.46.11.1486

[Crossref]

Schupp, J. R., Winzeler, H. E., Kon, T. M., Marini, R. P., Baugher, T. A., Kime, L. F., &
Schupp, M. A. (2017). A method for quantifying whole-tree pruning severity in
mature tall spindle apple plantings. HortScience, 52(9), 1233–1240.

[Crossref]


Schwarte, R., Heinol, H., Buxbaum, B., & Ringbeck, T. (1999). Principles of
three-dimensional imaging techniques. In B. Jähne, H. Haußecker, & P. Greißler
(Eds.), Handbook of computer vision and applications (pp. 464–482). Academic
Press.

Silwal, A., Gongal, A., & Karkee, M. (2014). Identification of red apples in field
environment with over the row machine vision system. Agricultural Engineering
International: CIGR Journal, 16(4), 66–75.

Silwal, A., Davidson, J. R., Karkee, M., Mo, C., Zhang, Q., & Lewis, K. (2017).
Design, integration, and field evaluation of a robotic apple harvester. Journal of
Field Robotics, 34(6), 1140–1159. https://doi.org/10.1002/rob.21715
[Crossref]

Simonite, T. (2017). MIT Technology Review. Retrieved May 23, 2022, from
https://www.technologyreview.com/2017/05/03/152012/apple-picking-
robot-prepares-to-compete-for-farm-jobs/

Sirovich, L., & Kirby, L. (1987). Low-dimensional procedure for the
characterization of human faces. Journal of the Optical Society of America A:
Optics,  Image Science, and Vision, 4, 519–524.

[Crossref]

Stajnko, D., Rakun, J., & Blanke, M. (2009). Modelling apple fruit yield using
image analysis for fruit colour, shape and texture. European Journal of
Horticultural Science, 74(6), 260–267.

Stein, M., Bargoti, S., & Underwood, J. (2016). Image based mango fruit
detection, localisation and yield estimation using multiple view geometry.

Sensors, 16(11), 1915. https://doi.org/10.3390/s16111915
[Crossref][PubMed][PubMedCentral]

Tabb, A., & Medeiros, H. (2017). A robotic vision system to measure tree traits.
In IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS)
2017 (pp. 6005–6012). https://doi.org/10.1109/IROS.2017.8206497

Tabb, A. L., Peterson, D. L., & Park, J. (2006a). Segmentation of apple fruit from
video via background modeling. In 2006 ASABE Annual International Meeting.

Retrieved from https://elibrary.asabe.org/abstract.asp?aid=20873


Tabb, A. L., Peterson, D. L., & Park, J. (2006b). Segmentation of apple fruit from
video via background modeling. In ASABE Annual Meeting. https://doi.org/10.
13031/2013.20873

Turner, D., Lucieer, A., & Watson, C. (2011). Development of an Unmanned
Aerial Vehicle (UAV) for hyper-resolution vineyard mapping based on visible,
multispectral and thermal imagery. In The GEOSS Era: Towards Operational

Environmental Monitoring (Vol. 1). Retrieved from https://www.isprs.org/
proceedings/2011/isrse-34/211104015Final00547.pdf

Underwood, J. P., Calleija, M., Taylor, Z., Hung, C., Nieto, J. M., Fitch, R., &
Sukkarieh, S. (2015). Real-time target detection and steerable spray for
vegetable crops. In Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference on Robotics
and Automation (ICRA), Seattle, WA, USA (pp. 26–30).

Underwood, J. P., Hung, C., Whelan, B., & Sukkarieh, S. (2016). Mapping almond
orchard canopy volume, flowers, fruit and yield using lidar and vision sensors.
Computers and Electronics in Agriculture, 130, 83–96. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
compag.2016.09.014

[Crossref]

Vázquez-Arellano, M., Griepentrog, H. W., Reiser, D., & Paraforos, D. S. (2016). 3-
D imaging systems for agricultural applications—A review. Sensors, 16(5), 618.
https://doi.org/10.3390/s16050618

[Crossref][PubMed][PubMedCentral]

Walklate, P. J., Hunt, J. C., Higson, H. L., & Sweet, J. B. (2004). A model of pollen–
mediated gene flow for oilseed rape. Proceedings of the Royal Society of London
Series, 271, 441–449. https://doi.org/10.1098/rspb.2003.2578

[Crossref]

Wang, C., Tang, Y., Zou, X., SiTu, W., & Feng, W. (2017). A robust fruit image
segmentation algorithm against varying illumination for vision system of fruit
harvesting robot. Optik, 131, 626–631.

[Crossref]

Wang, Y., Yang, Y., Yang, C., Zhao, H., Chen, G., Zhang, Z., Fu, S., Zhang, M., & Xu,

H. (2019). End-effector with a bite mode for harvesting citrus fruit in random
stalk orientation environment. Computers and Electronics in Agriculture, 157,
454–470. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.2019.01.015

[Crossref]


Whiting, M. (2016). Mechanical pollination for yield security. Project Report to
Washington Tree Fruit. Prosser/WA/99350: WSU.

Williams, H. A., Jones, M. H., Nejati, M., Seabright, M. J., Bell, J., Penhall, N. D.,

Barnett, J., Duke, M., Scarfe, A. J., Ahn, H., Lim, J., & MacDonald, B. A. (2019).
Robotic kiwifruit harvesting using machine vision, convolutional neural
networks, and robotic arms. Biosystems Engineering, 181, 140–156. https://doi.
org/10.1016/j.biosystemseng.2019.03.007

[Crossref]

Wouters, N., Ketelaere, B. D., Deckers, T., Baerdemaeker, J. D., & Saeys, W.
(2015). Multispectral detection of floral buds for automated thinning of pear.
Computers and Electronics in Agriculture, 113, 93–103. https://doi.org/10.1016/
j.compag.2015.01.015

[Crossref]

Yang, F. O. (2012). Development of a table-top robot model for thinning of fruit

[Master’s thesis, University of Illinois Urbana-Champlain, USA].

Yongting, T., & Jun, Z. (2017). Automatic apple recognition based on the fusion
of color and 3D feature for robotic fruit picking. Computers and Electronics in
Agriculture, 142, 388–396.

[Crossref]

Zhang, Q. (2017). Automation in tree fruit production: Principles and practice.
CABI.


© The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd. 2023

T. Ahamed (ed.), IoT and AI in Agriculture

https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-19-8113-5_18

18. Strategic Short Note: Comparing Soil

Moisture Retrieval from Water Cloud Model
and                                 Neural Network Using PALSAR-2 for Oil
Palm Estates

Veena Shashikant¹, Abdul Rashid Mohamed Shariff¹, ², ³  ,

Aimrun Wayayok¹, ², ³, Md Rowshon Kamal¹, Yang Ping Lee⁴ and
Wataru Takeuchi⁵

(1) Department of Biological and Agricultural Engineering, Faculty of

Engineering, Universiti Putra Malaysia, Serdang, Malaysia

(2) SMART Farming Technology Research Center, Faculty of
Engineering, Universiti Putra Malaysia, Serdang, Malaysia

(3)  Laboratory of Plantation System Technology and Mechanization
(PSTM),                                       Institute of Plantation Studies (IKP), Universiti 
Putra

Malaysia, Serdang, Malaysia

(4) FGV R & D Sdn Bhd, Level 9, Wisma FGV, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia

(5)  Department of Human and Social Systems, Institute of Industrial
Science,                                           The University of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan

Abdul Rashid Mohamed Shariff
Email: rashidpls@upm.edu.my

Abstract

It is essential to have the soil moisture retention at the optimal level in
order to maintain high yields in oil palm estates. Furthermore,

conventional methods for determining soil moisture are difficult, time-
consuming, and challenging in the rural estate areas. In this study,
synthetic aperture radar (SAR), L-band images, and in situ observations


were conducted at an oil palm plantation to employ water cloud model
(WCM) inversion for retrieving soil moisture from HH (Horizontal-

Horizontal) and HV (Horizontal-Vertical) polarized data. WCM was
evaluated by comparing leaf area index (LAI), leaf water area index

(LWAI), and normalized plant water content (NPWC), to understand the
effects of vegetation on backscattering coefficients. Adding on, neural

network (NN) technique was employed to understand capabilities of
soil                                           moisture retrievals using mentioned data. Effects of 
vegetation in
the WCM and NN models were then investigated using the k-fold cross
validation method to understand the difference in the in situ

observations and modelled results. The results demonstrated that HV
polarization efficiently approximated the backscatter coefficient

compared to HH polarization, while the best fit was achieved by using
the                                                LAI as a vegetation descriptor in the WCM model 
with an accuracy
of at least R² = 0.9460 with RMSE of 0.036 m³/m³ whereas the NN
model was able to improvise soil moisture content with R² = 0.9638
and RMSE of 0.012 m³/m³.

Keywords Backscatter coefficient – Soil moisture retrieval – LAI – NN
–                                                HH and HV polarization

18.1 Introduction

Oil palm trees requires year-round high temperatures and rainfall
where                                        prolonged dry periods of 2–3 months can affect yield 
output
(Oettli et al., 2018). Gravimetry to evaluate soil moisture is a highly

reliable method but only reflect a small region that changes around the
sampling sites. Active remote sensing using SAR sensors, on the other
hand, are employed in this study, to measure soil moisture over large
areas and due to its ability to penetrate to a depth of approximately

5 cm below the surface as seen in Fig. 18.1. WCM is preferred for its
simple technique where it defines the overall backscatter coefficient
obtained by the PALSAR-2 over vegetated surfaces as the incoherent

sum of the effects of vegetation and soil; thus, enabling retrieval of soil
moisture in the oil palm estates (Shashikant et al., 2021). Adding on,
single-layer NN approach was built to understand the capabilities of


artificial intelligence in retrieving soil moisture in the oil palm estates
using                                               the HH and HV polarization with the incidence 
of PALSAR-2 as
seen in the Fig. 18.2.

Fig. 18.1  The concept of retrieving soil moisture from oil palm estates using
WCM approach

Fig. 18.2  The concept of retrieving soil moisture from oil palm estates using
Neural Network (NN) approach

This study’s objective was to retrieve soil moisture from oil palm
fields                                               and evaluating the suitable vegetation 
indicator to be considered
in WCM implementing the k-fold cross validation. Secondly, the NN was


evaluated with similar cross validation k-fold technique to enable a
comparison of the soil moisture retrievals.

18.2 Retrieval of Soil Moisture Content in Oil Palm
Fields

PALSAR-2 signals can strongly penetrate the cloud layer as well as the
vegetation layer therefore important as oil palm crop have a large

canopy to bypass to understand the amount of water present in the soil.

As a result, estimating the water content of the soil at the size of an

entire field using radar remote sensing is of utmost significance of this
study. Numerous studies have shown that the vegetation type, the

geometric structure of its cover (including height, branch and leaf
shapes, and density distribution), and the water content of the plant

canopy all influence radar backscattering and radar wave transmittance
in                                              the plant canopy (Liu et al., 2019). In this study, 
multitemporal SAR
data inversion was utilized to assist eliminate the effects of the plant

layer on the radar backscatter to decrease mistakes in the soil moisture
content                                                data. Overall, HV polarization, utilizing 
LWAI as vegetation
descriptor yielded an R² value of 0.951 with an RMSE of 0.046 m³/m³,
while LAI yielded a smaller error with an RMSE of 0.036 m³/m³ and an
R² value of 0.946 in the testing dataset using k-fold technique as seen in
Table 18.1. In contrast, the highest RMSE was obtained in the scenarios
utilizing LAI with constant 1, where the RMSE was 0.059 m³/m³ in the
testing dataset. For the NN model results as shown in Fig. 18.3 the soil
moisture retrievals were more accurate with RMSE = 0.012 m³/m³.

Table 18.1  The retrievals of soil moisture using SAR vs. field soil moisture in
the testing data set using proposed V1 and V2 as the vegetation indicator in
WCM


Note: *According to the Global Monitoring for Environment and
Security                                           (GMES) standards and requirement of RMSE less 
then 0.05
m³/m³ is accepted for soil moisture retrievals using remote sensing
approach.


Fig. 18.3  The retrievals of soil moisture using NN vs. field soil moisture in the
testing data set

18.3 Conclusion

In summary, the cross-polarized HV backscatter coefficient is revealed
to                                               be more vulnerable than the co-polarized 
backscatter HH in utilizing
the WCM model. On the other hand, NN has been able to predict soil
moisture content directly using PALSAR-2 images in oil palm estates.

This research gives a useful and novel contribution on soil moisture for
oil                                               palm cultivation using PALSAR-2 sensor data. This 
research will help
oil palm estates to prepare for climate-related droughts and optimizing
soil moisture by showcasing the capabilities of the WCM and NN. This
study demonstrated the Global Monitoring for Environment and
Security (GMES) criterion was met in the LAI, LWAI, and NPWC in the

HV polarization. In addition, NN technique has able to fulfill the GMES
criteria for soil moisture retrievals.

References

Liu, C., Chen, Z., Shao, Y., Chen, J., Hasi, T., & Pan, H. (2019). Research advances
of SAR remote sensing for agriculture applications: A review. Journal of
Integrative Agriculture, 18(3), 506–525. https://doi.org/10.1016/S2095-

3119(18)62016-7

[Crossref]

Oettli, P., Behera, S. K., & Yamagata, T. (2018). Climate based predictability of oil
palm tree yield in Malaysia. Scientific Reports, 8(1), 2271. https://doi.org/10.

1038/s41598-018-20298-0

[Crossref][PubMed][PubMedCentral]

Shashikant, V., et al. (2021). Vegetation effects on soil moisture retrieval from
water cloud model using PALSAR-2 for oil palm trees. Remote Sensing, 13(20),
4023.

[Crossref]


© The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd. 2023

T. Ahamed (ed.), IoT and AI in Agriculture

https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-19-8113-5_19

19. Development of a Recognition System
for                              Spraying Areas from Unmanned Aerial
Vehicles Using a Machine Learning

Approach

Pengbo Gao¹, Yan Zhang¹, Linhuan Zhang¹, Ryozo Noguchi² and
Tofael Ahamed²

(1) Graduate School of Life and Environmental Sciences, University of

Tsukuba, Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan

(2) Faculty of Life and Environmental Sciences, University of Tsukuba,
Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan

Tofael Ahamed

Email: tofael.ahamed.gp@u.tsukuba.ac.jp

Abstract

Unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV)-based spraying systems have recently
become                                           important for the precision application of 
pesticides using
machine learning approaches. Therefore, the objective of this research
was to develop a machine learning system that has advantages of high
computational speed and good accuracy for recognizing spray and non-
spray areas for UAV-based sprayers. A machine learning system was

developed using the mutual subspace method for images collected from
a UAV. Two target lands: agricultural croplands and orchard areas were
considered in building two classifiers for distinguishing spray and non-
spray areas. The field experiments were conducted in target areas to

train and test the system using a commercial UAV (DJI Phantom 3 Pro)
with                                                an onboard 4K camera. The images were collected 
from low (5 m)
and high (15 m) altitudes for croplands and orchards, respectively. The


recognition system was divided into offline and online systems. In the
offline recognition system, 74.4% accuracy was obtained for the

classifiers in recognizing spray and non-spray areas for croplands. In
the case of orchards, the average classifier recognition accuracy of
spray and non-spray areas was 77.0%. On the other hand, the online

recognition system performance had an average accuracy of 65.1% for
croplands and 75.1% for orchards. The computational time for the

online recognition system was minimal, with an average of 0.0031 s for
classifier recognition. The developed machine learning system had an
average recognition accuracy of 70%, which can be implemented in an
autonomous UAV spray system for recognizing spray and non-spray
areas for real-time applications.

Keywords Recognition system – Image classifiers – Machine learning
system                                                 – Mutual subspace method

19.1 Introduction

With the development of unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) technologies,
the                                            use of UAVs has rapidly expanded to different 
applications such as
aerial photography to monitor vegetation, survey mapping, and
scouting with wireless networking (Zhang et al., 2018a). UAVs have
potential for use in agricultural applications and are ideal for precision
agriculture compared to aerial mapping and satellite remote sensing.

The use of UAVs is not only more efficient but also more cost-effective

than areal or high-resolution commercial satellite datasets (Zhang et al.,
2018a; Peteinatos et al., 2014; Manfreda et al., 2018; Bandini et al.,

2017; Zarco-Tejada et al., 2012). They can help monitor crops in real
time and provide high-resolution images of the field and canopy for
crop growth and production. High-resolution and machine vision
images are used for the identification of weeds and non-weed areas

using ground-based conventional sprayers (Hung et al., 2014; Rebetez
et                                             al., 2016). In recent advancements, sprayers have 
been attached to
UAV systems to deliver spray in the field. However, as the payload of a
UAV with a sprayer makes it heavier, it becomes difficult to fly in the
field while carrying large quantities of liquid chemicals. The process of


spraying agricultural crops with liquids needs to be very efficient to
avoid spraying non-crop areas. Similarly, the orchard spray system
needs to fly at a high altitude to spray chemicals on the top of the

canopy. High payloads of chemicals in the tank also cause problems.

Large tank sizes require more power and generate more safety

concerns while flying. It is very important to recognize the spray area
above                                            orchard and non-orchard areas to ensure precise 
application of
spray chemicals. For autonomy of UAV-based spraying systems, the
ability to recognize crop and orchard areas is significantly important.
Most autonomous and artificial intelligence systems need to be trained
on data prior to application. Training provides confidence in

operations. Machine learning systems have the potential for training
and testing on datasets to add artificial intelligence for different
agricultural                                      operations. In the spraying system, a machine 
learning
system is required to discern spraying spots and non-spraying spots in
operational environments of UAVs prior to implementing an

autonomous spraying system. Ground-based vehicles can function as
image processing systems with advantages for housing onboard
sprayers (Peteinatos et al., 2014; Lee et al., 2012). However, ground
vehicles have local mapping systems without predetermined field

coverage. UAVs have the advantage of identifying the field coverage in
advance with good trained datasets and machine learning systems.

Most studies using UAV have employed limited dataset collection
and                                         machine learning systems. Some research has reported 
that aerial
applications result in only 50% of targets being sprayed from altitudes

less than 1 m (Pimentel & Burgess, 2012). To the best of our knowledge,
UAV-based sprayers were introduced to the market and largely
implemented in mountains and crop areas to enable spraying with

precision. Most commercial UAVs with sprayers are operated under

regulations in many countries. As the technology is tending to develop
toward                                         autonomous systems, it is likely that UAV spray 
systems will
have a high potential for autonomous spraying applications. To increase
the flight time, UAV manufacturers have improved the endurance of
systems by increasing the battery capacity and reducing the total

weight of UAVs. In this regard, the application efficiency of chemicals to
the spray area from a high altitude must be improved. The height of


operation greatly influences how orchard areas can be covered in the
minimum amount of time. A similar consideration in selecting the
height of operation pertains to croplands.

Unmanned aerial systems (UASs) have mounted sensors that offer
an extraordinary opportunity to bridge the existing gap between field
observations and traditional air and space-borne remote sensing by
providing high spatial detail over relatively large areas in a cost-

effective way. UAV systems also have enhanced temporal retrieval for
natural and agricultural ecosystem monitoring in order to identify

future directions, applications, developments, and challenges

(Manfreda et al., 2018). Small UAVs (approximately 1.5 kg) are capable
of                                        measuring the range to a water surface using a global 
navigation
satellite system (GNSS) receiver with radar, sonar, and an in-house
developed camera-based laser distance sensor (CLDS) for determining
the water level (orthometric height) (Bandini et al., 2017). The remote
detection of water stress in a citrus orchard was also investigated using

leaf-level measurements of chlorophyll fluorescence and photochemical
reflectance                                               index (PRI) data, seasonal time-series of 
crown temperature
and PRI, and high-resolution airborne imagery (Zarco-Tejada et al.,

2012). These researches have the significant impacts on the application
of UAV in agriculture and hydrology. Also opened further avenues to
introduce                                          machine learning systems from remote sensing 
applications
for UAV-based sprayers.

How to generate quantitative remote sensing products using

rotating-wing and fixed-wing UAVs equipped with commercial off-the-
shell                                            (COTS) thermal and narrowband multispectral 
imaging sensors
was also evaluated for vegetation monitoring. Radiometric calibration,
atmospheric correction, and photogrammetric methods were

employed, which are required to obtain accurate remote sensing

products that are useful for vegetation monitoring (Berni et al., 2009a,
b).                                               The growing research community comprises 
tech-enthusiastic
hydrologists that aim to design and develop their own sensing systems
and adopt a multi-disciplinary perspective to tackling complex

observations, often using low-cost equipment intended for other
applications to build innovative sensors for measurement (Tauro et al.,
2018).                                                  A previously reported UAV system was 
integrated with optical


sensing to allow quantitative characterization of surface flow
phenomena to yield accurate surface flow maps of sub-meter water
bodies (Tauro et al., 2016). Vegetation monitoring and surface flow
phenomena                                            help in further confirmation of UAV 
application for

recognition of classifiers. These researches significantly increase the
scope of using UAV applications in the research community.

UAVs equipped with inexpensive thermal and narrowband
multispectral                                         imaging sensors have been used for 
agricultural
applications and yielded comparable estimations (Berni et al., 2009a,
b). Relying on UAV-based remote sensing and imaging techniques, high-
throughput field phenotyping (HTFP) was conducted using thermal
imaging for field phenomics of poplar and other tree species for
accelerating forest tree genetic improvement against abiotic stress

(Ludovisi et al., 2017). HFTP and genetic improvement against abiotic
stress                                              also increase further application of machine 
learning systems.
Several machine learning systems have been introduced in ground-
based sprayers using deep learning, neural networks and Bayesian

classifiers (Carrio et al., 2017; Majidi & Bab-Hadiashar, 2005; Tellaeche
et                                              al., 2008). Most machine learning systems have high 
complexity data
training and large time requirements for real-time application. In our
previous research, we found that the kernel mutual subspace method

(KMSM) has a high potential to recognize features and actions of

tracking with accuracy greater than 80% in real time (Zhang et al.,
2018b). Furthermore, the KMSM along with the Hankel matrix were

used for action recognition of machinery operator with a processing

time of 0.07 (Zhang et al., 2018b). The subspace method has been used
for                                                the recognition of human faces and objects 
(Sakano et al., 2005;
Fukui & Yamaguchi, 2005; Fukui & Yamaguchi, 2007). Therefore, the
subspace method has a highly promising capability in machine learning
systems for recognizing features of agricultural environments. In on-
board spraying applications using UAVs, the recognition of features
with minimum time and high accuracy can be performed using mutual
subspace method (MSM).

Therefore, the objective of this research is to develop a machine
learning system for recognizing the features of spraying and non-
spraying                                           areas for applying UAV-based sprayers in 
agricultural


croplands and orchards. It is expected that MSM machine learning
systems                                              can be employed, offering advantages of low 
computational

complexity and good accuracy in feature recognition systems for real-
time applications.

19.2 Materials and Methods

19.2.1 Mutual Subspace Method (MSM)

The MSM was introduced to the field of pattern recognition, a well-
known                                            method for object recognition based on image set 
(Maeda &
Watanabe, 1985). MSM is an extension of the Subspace Method (SM)
that classifies a set of input pattern vectors into several classes based

on multiple canonical angles between the input subspace and the class
subspaces (Fig. 19.1). The input subspace is generated from a set of
input patterns as a class (Maeda & Watanabe, 1985; Watanabe &
Pakvasa, 1973). The SM has high performance in pattern recognition
and was developed independently as CLAFIC (class-SELFIC method: the
original version of the subspace model) (Iijima et al., 1974) and the
multiple similarity method (Yamaguchi et al., 1998). It classifies an
input pattern vector into several classes based on the minimum
distance or angle between the input pattern vector and each class
subspace, where a class subspace corresponds to the distribution of
pattern vectors of the class in high-dimensional vector space (Fukui &
Yamaguchi, 2014).


Fig. 19.1 Subspace method (SM)

We considered that the input vector P and m class subspaces belong
to                                                  a k-dimensional vector space; the similarity is 
defined by the length
or the minimum angle between the input vector P and the ith class
subspace, where the length of P is often normalized to 1.0. The angle-
based similarity can be derived as follows:

(19.1)

where d is the dimension of the class subspace, and φi is the ith k-
dimensional orthogonal normal vector (PCA). First, the conventional
PCA operates by diagonalizing the covariance matrix C from k feature
vectors   (a = 1, 2, …, k) in an n-dimensional feature space,   ,

(19.2)

It gives an eigen decomposition of the covariance matrix by PCA to
obtain the principal components              of the
distribution:

(19.3)

However, we assume that all data here were calculated from the
data                                           centroid. This principal component describes the 
direction of the
largest data variation under a linear approximation. The above

characteristic equation can be transformed as follows:

(19.4)


Because   is in {x1…, xk }, we obtain

(19.5)

(19.6)


where 𝑥𝑎⃗ is a feature vector.

The MSM has been used to compare small variations in training data
and recognition target data and results in a powerful recognition

technique when the data distribution can be linearly approximated,
which                                           occurs when multiple data can be used as 
recognition target
image inputs. In the subspace method, a subspace that has d-
dimensional vectors is selected according to a criterion such as the

cumulative contribution rate from the eigenvectors, which are obtained
using                                                PCA on the entered images (Fukui & Yamaguchi, 
2007; Yamaguchi
et al., 1998; Schölkopf et al., 1998). Then, the similarity between
subspaces is defined according to the angle θ between eigenvectors

P = {𝜇i⃗} (registered as a dictionary) and the eigenvectors Q = {νj⃗}
(obtained from the input data) (Fig. 19.2).

Fig. 19.2 Comparison between two sets of images using MSM

According to eq. (1), the angle θ between subspaces is given as the
maximum eigenvalue (Fukui & Yamaguchi, 2005; Fukui & Yamaguchi,
2007).

(19.7)

where                ,                , i ≠ j, 0 < i, j ≤ d,
and d is the dimensionality of the subspace used for recognition.


19.2.2 Research Design for Classifiers and MSM

The classifiers are required to be established before the MSM
application.                                             The MSM research approach involves two 
steps: offline
recognition and online recognition systems. The offline recognition
system was used to validate the model and the accuracy of the

recognition of classifiers (Fig. 19.3). The online recognition system was
proposed to understand the computational times to enable in the real-
time system. In offline recognition, videos must be captured using the
UAV and converted through a JPG converter. For offline recognition,
selected                                             images were taken for training and testing the 
classifiers from
different datasets of crops and orchards. For online recognition, a new
video stream was captured. From the stream video, 1 frame was chosen
out of 20 frames from a new video stream. Considering the restricted

computational time required by a real-time system, Red-Green-Blue

(RGB) images were converted to the gray scale. While testing using the
online recognition system, a sliding window was used to obtain four

consecutive frames, and principal components analysis (PCA) was
applied                                              using the subspace method. In the subspace 
method, multiples
images were required, and we noted that four frames were optimal for
use in the subspace method.


Fig. 19.3 Research framework establishing the classifiers and the MSM

In the following sections, details of field experiments for training
and testing different datasets and the offline and online recognition
systems                                           are described.

19.2.3 Field Experiment for Training and Testing with
Datasets

In order to implement the MSM for feature recognition, different crops,
orchards, and fields are required for training the subspace patterns and
verifying the recognition accuracy. While selecting the datasets for

training, image acquisition at close range is preferable for agricultural
croplands.                                               On the other hand, for orchards, a high 
altitude allows the
canopy to be covered in a minimum time. Generally, close-range
spraying can effectively reduce the drift and waste of chemicals.

However, UAV sprayer payload and battery operational time are
major concerns in enabling autonomous spraying. In this study, two
working patterns are defined depending on the flying height. The

corresponding work areas are described as follows: for cropland (i.e.,

carrot, cabbage, and onions), plant height was less than 5 m, and image
acquisition was performed using a UAV from a height of 5 m. In the case
of orchards or plantations (i.e., chestnut, persimmons, and tall trees),
we considered the height of orchards to be less than 15 m, and thus, the
acquisition of images was conducted from a height of 15 m from the

ground (Table 19.1). Two classifier datasets were collected for cropland
spray                                                area recognition: one dataset for spray areas 
(carrot, cabbage,

onions) and one dataset for non-spray areas (inner farm roads, ridges,
bare                                               soil). Similarly, two classifier datasets (spray 
and non-spray areas)
were also collected for orchards: one dataset for orchard areas

(chestnuts and persimmon) and another dataset for trees that included
structured                                               areas (farm houses, green house structure, 
farm buildings).
The classifier datasets were captured using a commercial UAV (DJI
Phantom 3 Pro) with an onboard 4K camera with 1/2.3″ CMOS and FOV
94° 20 mm f/2.8 lens.

Table 19.1  Training and testing with datasets classified into two categories for
offline and online recognition systems


Targets

Data sets

Training image numbers

Testing image numbers


Carrot

Cabbage

Onion

Chestnut

Persimmon

Trees and
structure

Spray

120

198

107

97

94

118

Non-
spray

120

198

107

97

94

118

Offline

(spray + non-
spray)

First half
(60 + 60)

First half
(99 + 99)

First half
(53 + 53)

First half
(48 + 48)

First half
(47 + 47)

First half
(59 + 59)

Online

(spray + non-
spray)

All (120 + 120)

All (198 + 198)

All (107 + 107)

All (97 + 97)

All (94 + 94)

All (118 + 118)

Offline

(spray + non-
spray)

Last half
(60 + 60)

Last half
(99 + 99)

Last half
(54 + 54)

Last half
(49 + 49)

Last half
(47 + 47)

Last half
(59 + 59)

Online

New
video
(89)

New
video
(298)

New
video
(204)

New
video
(180)

New
video
(210)

New
video
(141)

The 4K videos were collected and converted to images using a JPG
converter at the preprocessing stage. The images were collected in the

morning from 10 am to 12 pm to ensure uniform lighting while the UAV
flew over the croplands and orchards. Days with clear skies were

generally chosen for collecting the videos by the flying UAV. The

classifiers were segmented from the videos according to flight heights
for                                           croplands and orchards (Table 19.1). Three field 
experiments were
conducted with the UAV in three randomly selected zones; a rural farm
with a combination of structures and orchards (L1), a farm with

different croplands with orchards (L2) and a research farm with

croplands and orchards (L3) (Fig. 19.4). MATLAB 2015a® (MathWorks,

California) was used to develop the user interface and training and
testing datasets for offline and online recognition systems.



Fig. 19.4 Training and testing datasets for building the classifiers for
recognizing spray areas and non-spray areas. (a) L1: Cropland: Carrot, Spray
Area.   (b) L1: Cropland: Non-spray Area. (c) L1: Orchard: Persimmon, Spray
Area. (d) L1: Orchard: Non-spray Area. (e) L2: Cropland: Cabbage, Spray Area.

(f) L2: Cropland: Non-spray Area. (g) L2: Orchard: Chestnut, Spray Area. (h)
L2: Orchard: Non-spray Area. (i) L3: Cropland: Onion, Spray Area. (j) L3:
Cropland: Non-spray Area. (k) L3: Orchard: Trees, Spray Area. (l) L3: Orchard:
Non-spray Area

19.2.4 Offline Recognition System

The offline recognition system consisted of learning and recognition
phases.                                              The learning phase was started by collecting 
training image
datasets of each class m∈{1,…,M} and inputting them into the system.
For offline experiments of each land type, we used one of the videos
with the first half for training and the last half for testing. The

recognition phase was confirmed to begin once the learning phases of
the                                           classifiers using scene sequences were completed 
(Fig. 19.5). Then,
PCA was applied to establish the linear subspace as a reference
subspace for each class. The training phase was completed in three
stages. First, all the collected testing images of I_j∈{1,…,J} were input
into the system, and each I had frames of {f_1,…,f_n}. Second, the PCA

was applied to establish the linear subspace for testing the subspace for
each class I_j. Finally, the canonical angles between the current testing
subspace and each reference subspace were calculated. The current
image was assigned to the class with whom it shared the smallest

canonical angles, which indicated that it had the highest similarity
when referenced to the training datasets. In an offline experiment
setting,                                           the UAV was flown 5 m above the cropland.


Fig. 19.5  Image sets in classifier recognition in the learning and recognition
phases for MSM application

The first half of images for training (99 images, spray and 99
images, non-spray) and the last half of images for testing ( 99
images, spray and 99 images, non-spray) were selected for cabbage
fields (Table 19.1). The first half of images for training (53 images,

spray and 53 images, non-spray) and the last half of images for testing
(54                                             images, spray and 54 images, non-spray) were 
selected for onion
fields. Similarly, the first half of images for training (60 images, spray
and 60 images, non-spray) and the last half of images (60 images, spray
and 60 images, non-spray) were selected for testing carrot fields. A
height of 15 m was chosen for flying over the orchard areas to collect

the first half of images for training (48 images, spray and 48 images,

non-spray) and the last half of images for testing (49 images, spray and
49                                             images, non-spray) for chestnut trees.

Again, the first half of images for training (47 images, spray and 47
images, non-spray) and the last half of images for testing (47 images,
spray and 47 images, non-spray) were used in the case of persimmon
fields. Finally, the first half of images for training (59 images, spray and
59 images, non-spray) and the last half of images for testing (59 images,
spray and 59 images, non-spray) were used for trees and structures.

The accuracy analysis of offline recognition system was compared with
the                                               true positive and true negative values (Table 
19.2). For further


confirmation, the extended datasets were considered to check the
recognition accuracy of classifiers using MSM.

Table 19.2 Accuracy analysis for the offline recognition system

True condition (offline
recognition)

Spray      Non-spray   ∑Total


Predicted condition (tested by
recognition phase)

Spray

Non-
spray

Accuracy

True positive
False negative

False positive
True negative

Total
positive

Total
negative

19.2.5 Online Recognition System

The subspace patterns were trained during the offline recognition
process.                                           These patterns were used for the online 
recognition

development of classifiers. A sliding window was used to select four
images that were converted to four vectors through resizing and

reshaping. The gray scale images were resized to 8 × 8 and reshaped to
one column vector using MATLAB®. A test subspace was generated
using PCA for creating a matrix from the vectors. The online recognition
progress was completed in the following stages. First, each video from

each target crop or orchard was preprocessed, and one image was
extracted                                            from every 20 frames. Among the extracted 
images, there

were several frames captured that did not belong to either class during
takeoff                                                and landing or that included other plants 
during entry and exit.

Such images were marked as noise images and removed to improve

recognition accuracy. In the experiment, two datasets were collected for
each target land. For the online experiment, we used all of the frames

(removed noise) from one of the videos as training, and we used
another                                             video for testing (the video was not directly 
read; rather, the
video was extracted to image frames, and noise was removed). In the
second step, we classified the set of sequential images using the MSM

classifier. Finally, the spray areas were recognized based on the training
datasets                                               (Fig. 19.6). In the datasets, 198 images 
(spray) and 198 images


(non-spray) were collected from a 5 m height for training, and a
reference subspace was built for use in the online experiment for

cabbage. In case of testing, a new video was taken where one frame was
selected out of 20 frames. There were a total of 298 frames used for

testing for cabbage. Similarly, 107 images (spray) and 107 images (non-
spray) were selected for training in online experiments, and the new
video stream was used with a total of 204 images for onion. In the case
of carrot, 120 images (spray) and 120 images (non-spray) were used

for training, and a new video stream with 89 images was used for

testing the datasets. For orchard categories from a height of 15 m, two
classifiers were trained using 97 images (spray) and 97 images (non-
spray); 94 images (spray) and 94 images (non-spray); 118 images

(spray) and 118 images (non-spray) for chestnut, persimmon and trees,
respectively. For testing the datasets of each target, a new video stream
was taken with a total of 180 images extracted for chestnut, 210 images
for persimmon and 141 images for trees.


Fig. 19.6  Online recognition system for classification of spraying based on
MSM classifiers


19.3 Results

19.3.1 Offline Recognition Performance

In the offline recognition system, the accuracy was 80.5% in the

cropland classifiers for spray and non-spray area recognition in the first
experimental areas (L1). In the case of orchards, the spray and non-
spray area recognition was 75.0% (Table 19.3). In the second

experimental area (L2), the recognition accuracy was 70.4% and 86.1%
for croplands and orchards, respectively. Finally, mixed crop and

orchard areas (L3) were chosen for offline recognition by classifiers.

The recognition accuracy was 72.3% and 70.0% for croplands and

orchards, respectively. The overall accuracy was 74.3% (croplands) and
77.0% (orchards) for the L1, L2, and L3 locations, which had a

combination of croplands and orchards (Table 19.3). Wide crop canopy
or                                            orchards had the advantage of higher recognition by 
classifiers. The
high accuracy of the recognition system was obtained using the MSM
for training and testing using datasets from the three different types of
experimental fields.

Table 19.3 Offline classifier recognition and accuracy analysis

True condition (offline
recognition)


Predicted condition
(tested by the recognition
phase)

Location
(croplands,
Orchards)

L1

L2

L3

Work
patterns

Classifiers

Spray

Non-spray
Accuracy
Spray

Non-spray
Accuracy
Spray

Non-spray

Cropland

Spray Non-

spray

74   21

16   79

80.5%

38   11

18   31

70.4%

56   0

31   25

Orchard

Spray Non-

spray

35   9

13   31

75%

41   2

10   33

86.1%

37   18

15   40


Location
(croplands,

Work
patterns

True condition (offline
recognition)

Cropland    Orchard


Orchards)

Classifiers

Accuracy

Spray

72.3%

Non-
spray

Spray

70.0%

Non-
spray

Further confirmation, frame numbers were increased for training
and testing of datasets, whether there were significant differences in
recognition                                            accuracy of classifiers. Extended datasets 
confirmed the
accuracy of MSM method did not change much even if the frames were
increased to double for testing and training of datasets in offline

recognition system (Table 19.4).

Table 19.4  Extended datasets for training and testing of classifiers using
offline recognition system


Croplands and
Orchards

Carrot
Cabbage
Onion
Chestnut
Persimmon

Trees and
structures

Data sets

Spray Non-

spray

256  256

440  440

210  210

224  224

248  248

216  216

Training image
numbers

Offline

First half
(128 + 128)

First half
(220 + 220)

First half
(105 + 105)

First half
(112 + 112)

First half
(124 + 124)

First half
(108 + 108)

Testing image
numbers

Offline

Last half
(128 + 128)

Last half
(220 + 220)

Last half
(105 + 105)

Last half
(112 + 112)

Last half
(124 + 124)

Last half
(108 + 108)

Accuracy
(%)

73.79

81.25

66.32

77.31

70.94

64.58

19.3.2 Online Recognition Performance

The developed user interface had the advantage of real-time online
information                                               that included the current cropped image, 
the tested image

sets using a sliding window, the predicted category, the recognition rate


(the correct classifications were known during the test), the

computational time, and the similarity plot. For the cropland classifiers,
the UAV was flown at a 5 m height, and the recognition rate was

observed to be 65.5% for L1 experimental areas. The computational
time was only 0.0031 s for classifier recognition (Fig. 19.7a–c). The
flying                                         height was 15 m for orchard classification, and 
recognition was
observed at 69.1% with a computation time of 0.0031 s for each

classifier. In the second experimental flying areas (L2), the recognition
accuracy                                                 of classifiers for noted spray and 
non-spray areas was 60.8%
and 82.2% for croplands and orchards, respectively. The computational
time was only 0.0031 s for recognition by the classifiers, and orchard

classifier recognition also required only 0.0031 s for each classifier (Fig.
19.8a–c). In the third experimental location (L3), the online recognition
rate by classifiers reached 69% in 0.0048 s for each classifier and

71.7% in 0.0031 s for each classifier in croplands and orchards,

respectively. The online recognition system had an average accuracy of
65.1% and 75.1% for croplands and orchards, respectively, with a

recognition time of 0.0031 s (Table 19.5).



Fig. 19.7 Online recognition performance of a classifier of croplands from a

5 m height. (a) Cropland: Carrot. (b) Crop field: Cabbage. (c) Cropland: Onions



Fig. 19.8 Online recognition performance of a classifier of orchards from a
15 m height. (a) Orchard: Chestnut. (b) Orchard: Persimmon. (c) Orchard:
Trees and Structures

Table 19.5 Online classifier recognition and accuracy analysis

Crop/land       Flying height (m) Accuracy (%) Recognition time of classifier (s)

Carrot         5            65.51      0.0031

Cabbage        5           60.88      0.0048

Onion          5            69.00      0.0031

Chestnut        15           69.10      0.0031

Persimmon      15           82.21      0.0031

Trees and structures 15          74.10      0.0031

19.4 Discussion


The field experiments were conducted in different types of fields to
increase                                            dataset variety for the selection of spray and 
non-spray areas
inside the croplands and orchards. The offline recognition system
shows the MSM effectiveness for training and testing the datasets for
croplands and orchards. The classifiers were used for croplands and

orchards and were limited to being trained and tested on datasets
acquired                                                in the late fall season. The MSM has the 
flexibility to increase
the number of classifiers, which may increase the computational time
requirement. As UAV spraying is performed at higher speeds, we tend
to focus on minimizing the computation time to reduce the

computational burden for decision making to recognize the spray and
non-spray areas in croplands and orchards. UAVs operating at high
speed with limited battery life and a small payload of liquid chemicals
demand high computational speed and fast operation with good

recognition accuracy. With this consideration, the online recognition
system                                        provided some advantages, although its accuracy was 
not as
high as that of the offline recognition system. The system needs further
training data to increase accuracy, especially for the identification of

croplands less than 5 m high and orchard areas from 15 m high.

In the online experiment setting, similar environments resulted in
increased recognition, while adding different categories of orchards

reduced recognition. It was very challenging to test the datasets from a
fast UAV operating speed at a high altitude. Classifiers were trained and
tested on datasets acquired from three different locations to confirm

the recognition accuracy. However, complex canopy systems were not
present in the features. This MSM system had a limitation in

recognizing classifiers in complex canopies of crops or orchards. We

could not collect images of complex crop canopy, and we assume that in
such canopy systems, upward and downward image acquisition is

required to identify the spray and non-spray areas under different

lighting conditions. Lighting is a key point that needs to be carefully
considered, especially interception through the canopy. It would be

ideal to train the UAV features of spray and non-spray areas on a large
field to obtain higher accuracy in precision applications ranging from
usual to complex canopies of crops. Further studies are required to deal
with                                               such complexity of canopies, very large datasets 
in different


lighting conditions, the processing of images to remove noise using
extended Kalman filters in onboard UAV systems.

19.5 Conclusion

A machine learning system was developed using MSM for images

collected by a UAV in different types of farm fields and orchards. The
machine learning system was developed to train and test two

classifiers, one for agricultural croplands and one for orchard areas, on
different datasets to distinguish spray and non-spray areas for the
development of autonomous spraying systems in the future. Images

were collected from low (5 m) and high altitude (15 m). The accuracy of
the offline recognition system was found to be 74.4% and 77.0% for

low and high altitude systems, respectively. On the other hand, the
online recognition system performance had an average accuracy of

65.1% and 75.1% for low altitude and high altitude image acquisition
systems, respectively. The computation time for online recognition
systems was observed to have a minimum of 0.0031 s (on average) for
reporting                                         classifier recognition for the frames in the 
sliding window.

The developed machine learning system for recognizing by classifiers
can                                            be implemented in the autonomous UAV spray system 
for

recognizing spray and non-spray areas with minimum computation in
real time. In our future experiments, we will improve the training and
testing system by incorporating an artificial neural network (ANN) and
deep learning to develop a UAV-based autonomous spraying unit for

croplands and orchards.

Acknowledgments

Thanks to Open Access Publishers Sensors from MDPI to have their
policy to support the authors for reusing of the published article. In this
regard, we would like to extend our gratitude to Sensors Journal to
publish this article (Pengbo Gao, Yan Zhang, Linhuan Zhang, Ryozo
Noguchi and Tofael Ahamed. Development of a Recognition System for
Spraying                                           Areas from Unmanned Aerial Vehicles Using a 
Machine
Learning Approach, Sensors 2019, 19(2), 313; https://doi.org/10.

3390/s19020313). We thank University of Tsukuba for supporting this


research and express our gratitude to the technical staff of Agricultural
and Forest Research Center, University of Tsukuba for their

cooperation.

Conflicts of Interest

The authors declare no conflicts of interest.

References

Bandini, F., Jakobsen, J., Olesen, D., Reyna-Gutierrez, J. A., & Bauer-Gottwein, P.
(2017). Measuring water level in rivers and lakes from lightweight Unmanned
Aerial Vehicles. Journal of Hydrology, 548, 237–250.

[Crossref]

Berni, J. A., Zarco-Tejada, P. J., Suárez, L., & Fereres, E. (2009a). Thermal and
narrowband multispectral remote sensing for vegetation monitoring from an
unmanned aerial vehicle. IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing,
47(3), 722–738.

[Crossref]

Berni, J. A. J., Zarco-Tejada, P. J., Suarez, L., González-Dugo, V., & Fereres, E.
(2009b). Remote sensing of vegetation from UAV platforms using lightweight
multispectral and thermal imaging sensors. The International Archives of the
Photogrammetry, Remote Sensing and Spatial Information Sciences, 38(6), 6.

Carrio, A., Sampedro, C., Rodriguez-Ramos, A., & Campoy, P. (2017). A review of
deep learning methods and applications for unmanned aerial vehicles. Journal
of Sensors, 2017, 3296874.

[Crossref]

Fukui, K., & Yamaguchi, O. (2005). Face recognition using multi-viewpoint
patterns for robot vision. In Robotics research. The eleventh international

symposium (pp. 192–201). Springer.

Fukui, K., & Yamaguchi, O. (2007, November). The kernel orthogonal mutual
subspace method and its application to 3D object recognition. In Asian

conference on computer vision (pp. 467–476). Springer.

Fukui, K., & Yamaguchi, O. (2014). Subspace methods. In Computer vision (pp.
777–781). Springer.


Hung, C., Xu, Z., & Sukkarieh, S. (2014). Feature learning based approach for
weed classification using high resolution aerial images from a digital camera
mounted on a UAV. Remote Sensing, 6(12), 12037–12054.

[Crossref]

Iijima, T., Genchi, H., & Mori, K. I. (1974). A theory of character recognition by
pattern matching method. In Learning systems and intelligent robots (pp. 437–
450). Springer.

Lee, D. H., Lee, K. S., Cho, Y. J., Lee, J. Y., & Chung, S. O. (2012). Development of
autonomous sprayer considering tracking performance on geometrical
complexity of ground in greenhouse. Journal of Biosystems Engineering, 37(5),
287–295.

[Crossref]

Ludovisi, R., Tauro, F., Salvati, R., Khoury, S., Mugnozza Scarascia, G., &
Harfouche, A. (2017). UAV-based thermal imaging for high-throughput field
phenotyping of black poplar response to drought. Frontiers in Plant Science, 8,
1681.

[Crossref][PubMed][PubMedCentral]

Maeda, K., & Watanabe, S. (1985). Pattern matching method with local
structure. Trans IEIC, J68-D, 345–352.

Majidi, B., & Bab-Hadiashar, A. (2005, December). Real time aerial natural
image interpretation for autonomous ranger drone navigation. In Digital image
computing: Techniques and applications (DICTA’05) (pp. 65–65). IEEE.

Manfreda, S., McCabe, M. F., Miller, P. E., Lucas, R., Pajuelo Madrigal, V., Mallinis,
G., & Toth, B. (2018). On the use of unmanned aerial systems for environmental
monitoring. Remote Sensing, 10(4), 641.

[Crossref]

Peteinatos, G. G., Weis, M., Andú jar, D., Rueda Ayala, V., & Gerhards, R. (2014).
Potential use of ground-based sensor technologies for weed detection. Pest
Management Science, 70(2), 190–199.

[Crossref][PubMed]

Pimentel, D., & Burgess, M. (2012). Small amounts of pesticides reaching target
insects. Environment, Development and Sustainability, 14(1), 1–2.

[Crossref]


Rebetez, J., Satizábal, H. F., Mota, M., Noll, D., Bü chi, L., Wendling, M., & Burgos,

S. (2016, April). Augmenting a convolutional neural network with local
histograms-A case study in crop classification from high-resolution UAV
imagery. In ESANN.

Sakano, H., Mukawa, N., & Nakamura, T. (2005). Kernel mutual subspace
method and its application for object recognition. Electronics and

Communications in Japan (Part II: Electronics), 88(6), 45–53.
[Crossref]

Schö lkopf, B., Smola, A., & Mü ller, K. R. (1998). Nonlinear component analysis
as a kernel eigenvalue problem. Neural Computation, 10(5), 1299–1319.
[Crossref]

Tauro, F., Porfiri, M., & Grimaldi, S. (2016). Surface flow measurements from
drones. Journal of Hydrology, 540, 240–245.

[Crossref]

Tauro, F., Selker, J., Van De Giesen, N., Abrate, T., Uijlenhoet, R., Porfiri, M., &
Grimaldi, S. (2018). Measurements and observations in the XXI century
(MOXXI): Innovation and multi-disciplinarity to sense the hydrological cycle.
Hydrological Sciences Journal, 63(2), 169–196.

[Crossref]

Tellaeche, A., Burgos-Artizzu, X. P., Pajares, G., & Ribeiro, A. (2008). A vision-
based method for weeds identification through the Bayesian decision theory.
Pattern Recognition, 41(2), 521–530.

[Crossref]

Watanabe, S., & Pakvasa, N. (1973, February). Subspace method of pattern
recognition. In Proceedings of the 1st IJCPR (pp. 25–32).

Yamaguchi, O., Fukui, K., & Maeda, K. I. (1998, April). Face recognition using
temporal image sequence. In Proceedings third IEEE international conference on
automatic face and gesture recognition (pp. 318–323). IEEE.

Zarco-Tejada, P. J., González-Dugo, V., & Berni, J. A. (2012). Fluorescence,
temperature and narrow-band indices acquired from a UAV platform for water
stress detection using a micro-hyperspectral imager and a thermal camera.

Remote Sensing of Environment, 117, 322–337.
[Crossref]


Zhang, Y., Chen, D., Wang, S., & Tian, L. (2018a). A promising trend for field
information collection: An air-ground multi-sensor monitoring system.

Information Processing in Agriculture, 5(2), 224–233.
[Crossref]

Zhang, Y., Gao, P., & Ahamed, T. (2018b). Development of a rescue system for
agricultural machinery operators using machine vision. Biosystems Engineering,
169, 149–164.

[Crossref]


© The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd. 2023

T. Ahamed (ed.), IoT and AI in Agriculture

https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-19-8113-5_20

20. Basal Stem Rot Disease Classification by
Machine Learning Using Thermal Images
and an Imbalanced Data Approach

Izrahayu Che Hashim¹  , Abdul Rashid Mohamed Shariff², ³, ⁴  ,
Siti Khairunniza Bejo², ³, ⁴  , Farrah Melissa Muharam⁴, ⁵  and
Khairulmazmi Ahmad⁴, ⁶

(1) Centre of Studies for Surveying Sciences and Geomatics, Faculty of

Architecture, Planning and Surveying, Seri Iskandar Campus,

Universiti Teknologi MARA, Seri Iskandar, Perak, Malaysia

(2) Department of Biological and Agricultural Engineering, Level 3,
Faculty of Engineering, Universiti Putra Malaysia (UPM), Serdang,

Selangor, Malaysia

(3) Smart Farming Technology Research Centre, Universiti Putra
Malaysia (UPM), Serdang, Selangor, Malaysia

(4)  Laboratory of Plantation System Technology and Mechanization
(PSTM),                                        Institute of Plantation Studies, Universiti Putra 
Malaysia
(UPM), Serdang, Selangor, Malaysia

(5) Department of Agriculture Technology, Faculty of Agriculture,

Universiti Putra Malaysia (UPM), Serdang, Selangor, Malaysia

(6)  Department of Plant Pathology, Faculty of Agriculture, Universiti
Putra                                       Malaysia (UPM), Serdang, Selangor, Malaysia

Izrahayu Che Hashim

Email: izrah696@uitm.edu.my

Abdul Rashid Mohamed Shariff (Corresponding author)
Email: rashidpls@upm.edu.my


Siti Khairunniza Bejo

Email: skbejo@upm.edu.my

Farrah Melissa Muharam

Email: farrahm@upm.edu.my

Khairulmazmi Ahmad

Email: khairulmazmi@upm.edu.my

Abstract

Oil palm has become a commodity of global strategic importance due to
its rapid expansion. Palm oil is widely utilised in food and as a biodiesel
precursor. The oil boosts several countries’ economies, especially

Malaysia’s. However, Ganoderma boninense causes basal stem rot (BSR),
the                                               most severe disease of oil palms. BSR management 
controls remain
to be ineffective at the moment. There is currently no cure for BSR
disease, and the only practical option is to extend the life of the oil palm
tree. Thus, we demonstrate how a thermal image technique can be used
to distinguish between healthy and BSR-infected trees. We assessed the
feasibility of using WEKA standard machine learning algorithms (ML)
such as Naive Bayes (NB), multilayer perceptron (MLP), and random

forest (RF) to classify healthy and BSR-infected trees. Additionally, we
emphasise the data imbalance technique in this study because, in

reality, the number of healthy and BSR-infected is not uniform.
Therefore, imbalanced data approaches such as random under-

sampling (RUS), random over-sampling (ROS), and synthetic minority
oversampling (SMOTE) are employed in this classification. In order to
evaluate and compare various algorithms and imbalanced approaches,
we described the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve region
(AUC), the precision-recall curve (PRC), and the confusion matrix as an
alternative in terms of the success rate of the non-infected and BSR-
infected tree. We expect that our technique will assist non-expert users
in identifying appropriate machine learning algorithms, resulting in
improved performance for accurately predicting BSR disease.


Keywords Ganoderma boninense – Basal stem rot (BSR) –

Temperature – Machine learning – Classifier – Imbalance approach –
SMOTE – Classification

20.1 Introduction

Diseases and pests are an essential concern to the oil palm industry at
the moment. Crop yields can suffer significantly while afflicted with
diseases and pests that compete for nutrients with palm oil and cause
tree destruction. This is critical to avoid considerable crop damage,
mainly owing to severe diseases such as basal stem rot (BSR) disease
caused by Ganoderma boninense (G. boninense).

Various control strategies or approaches have been used or

produced to limit the disease’s economic effect, including removing or
eradicating diseased palms, treating infected palms, and protecting

young or healthy palms that have not yet been afflicted (Chung, 2011).

However, G. boninense disease currently lacks an effective cure

(Siddiqui et al., 2021). The majority of control strategies are only

effective in reducing disease occurrence and extending the productive
life                                            of diseased palms, not entirely curing the disease.

In what follows, we demonstrate how BSR can be viewed as a

problem that results in a drop in oil palm yields and negatively impacts
Malaysia’s economy (Sect. 20.2). Additionally, we demonstrate that
based on the formulation of this problem, a thermal data approach

(Sect. 20.3) utilising machine learning (Sect. 20.4) and imbalance data
approach                                              (Sect. 20.5) can provide an accurate 
classification of the
healthiness of oil palm trees in a reasonable of time. We next identified
healthy and BSR-affected trees using three algorithms plus an
imbalance technique from the WEKA open-source package (Sect. 20.6),
demonstrating that combining algorithms and imbalance approaches
yielded models that performed better than conventional algorithm
selection alone (Sect. 20.7). More precisely, we demonstrate that

combining the best thermal selection feature with an algorithm and an
imbalance technique makes it possible to differentiate healthy palm

trees and those affected with BSR (Sect. 20.8).


This chapter is based previous paper published in the Agronomy, an
Open Access Journal by MDPI in 2021 (Hashim et al., 2021a).

20.2 Basal Stem Rot (BSR)

Basal stem rot (BSR) is an oil palm root disease that attacks the basal
stem. BSR in oil palm typically expresses itself externally, as visible in
the foliage, which occurs when at least 50% of the cross-sectional area

of the stem base has been damaged. The rot would hinder nutrients and
water transport to the aerial parts, causing symptoms similar to the

nutritional deficit and water stress (Rebitanim et al., 2020). Thus, visual
signs                                               alone are insufficient to identify BSR, as 
other water stress causes,
including dryness, higher soil water salinity, or hyperacid soils, can

produce close foliage signs (Saeidi et al., 2019).

Internal tissues at the stem base or root bole get drily rotted due to
the infection. The affected palm runs the possibility of its root or stem
bole breaking at any stage of BSR, finally resulting in the palm

collapsing. Internal signs include dry and brown rot lesions on the hole
and                                               stem, generally with visible mycelial 
development, and tissues with
black bands separating the light brown lesions. Outside the major
border of the lesion region, the uninfected tissues are often yellow-
pigmented, indicating a host-resistance response to infection (Ariffin et
al., 1989). Even before signs of stem or foliar lesion are apparent, the

root tissues will be infected, with several saprophytic microbes

colonising them. After a significant infection period, BSR’s basidiomata
will form at the base of the stem or will arise from infected roots. The
growing                                           stem’s soft tissues gradually decay in younger 
palms, and it is
uncommon for the BSR basidiomata to form before the palm dies

(Singh, 1991).

BSR is a severe challenge to the sustainability of oil palm

production, particularly in Southeast Asia, and has resulted in economic
losses for the worldwide oil palm business (Rebitanim et al., 2020).

This disease has a detrimental effect on yields and completely destroys
palm                                              stands. This results in income loss and puts the 
oil palm industry
in Southeast Asian nations such as Indonesia and Malaysia under
significant pressure (Murphy et al., 2021). Between 2009 and 2011,


BSR was detected on approximately 3.71 percent of Malaysia’s land
area                                          (59,148 hectares out of 1,594,286 hectares) 
(Kamarudin et al.,
2016). G. boninense disease has ruined 221,000 hectares of oil palm
plantations in Malaysia, resulting in an annual loss of around RM1.5
billion (New Straits Times, 2021). Thus, information on Ganoderma

prevalence in oil palms is crucial for disease prevention and treatment.

20.3 Detection of BSR Disease

Due to the disease’s difficulties in being diagnosed early, it spreads
rapidly                                           during the field’s earliest stages of oil palm 
production.

Generally, methods for detecting and controlling BSR in its early phases
are                                           ineffectual and inaccurate (Chong et al., 2017; 
Fowotade et al.,

2019). Early identification is difficult because of the absence of visible
symptoms, which had become a significant impediment to controlling
BSR disease. While BSR is incurable, having an early identification tool

for infected palms is crucial for economically maintaining the condition.

Numerous researches have been done to develop methods for early
detection of the disease, including the Ganoderma Selective Medium

(GSM) (Ariffin & Idris, 1993), the Polymerase Chain Reaction-DNA
(PCR-DNA)                                          method (Idris et al., 2003), the Enzyme-Linked

Immunosorbent Assay-Polyclonal Antibody (ELISA-PAb) method (Idris
& Rafidah, 2008), and the Headspace Solid-Phase Microextraction (HS-
SPME)                                            method integrated with Gas Chromatography-Mass

Spectrometry (Zainol Hilmi et al., 2019). Nonetheless, the techniques
outlined                                             above are tedious, costly, and inefficient for 
vast planting
zones. A system that is optimum for infection diagnosis involves
meticulous planning, swift execution, and non-destructive methods.

Apart from laboratory-based techniques, many remote sensing (RS)
approaches                                               have been developed for detecting G. 
boninense in the field.
The application of RS technology was a non-destructive technique that
may potentially save time. RS includes many platforms and sources,
some of which are invisible to the naked sight.

20.3.1 Remote Sensing Techniques for G. boninense

Disease Detection


RS is a non-contact method of obtaining information about an object by
measuring the electromagnetic radiation reflected/backscattered or

emitted by the Earth’s surface (Gomarasca, 2010). Currently,
agriculture                                           industry device system development, such as 
an RS, is being
used to monitor real-time disease. RS is a type of art and science that

collects information about an object without requiring direct physical
touch. Despite the time-consuming nature of the methodologies, BSR
was measured and detected utilising RS methods (Khosrokhani et al.,

2018). The applications of RS methods are classified as non-imaging or
imaging sensor-based as shown in Fig. 20.1. Radiometers-

spectroradiometers (positioned on high platforms, tractors, or
portable) and fluorescence radiometers are non-imaging sensors.

Hyperspectral (narrowband) imaging sensors, multispectral

(broadband) imaging sensors, terrestrial laser scanning, thermal
infrared                                         imaging sensors, and microwave synthetic aperture 
radar
(SAR) are all variations of imaging sensors.

Fig. 20.1 Detection of Ganoderma disease utilising RS methods


Early detection and non-destructive disease identification methods,
particularly for perennial plants, are critical for smart agriculture and
sustainable agricultural management (Balasundram et al., 2020). Plant
diseases and stress may be monitored using RS approaches (Gogoi et
al., 2018; Mee et al., 2017; Naidu et al., 2009; Yang, 2020; Zhang et al.,

2019). Recent research has expanded this technology’s use to
agricultural                                          diseases on a large scale and in real time in 
field conditions
(Bock et al., 2020; Huang et al., 2007; Liu & Wang, 2021; Sighicelli et al.,
2009). Additionally, RS approaches may be developed for identifying

BSR infections on both the local and major scales within oil palm
plantation regions. This approach was chosen because it provides
dependable,                                           quick, and real-time surveillance for control 
and
management. Early diagnosis of BSR infection is viewed as a critical
source of information for promptly controlling and curtailing it and
preventing its spread in plantation regions.

20.3.2 Detection of G. boninense Using Thermal Imaging

Thermal imaging detects temperature variations in plants due to water
stress. The temperature of the plants reduces owing to the latent heat

of evaporation when transpiration occurs and water is evaporated from
the                                              plants. Transpiration is a thermodynamic 
endo-energetic process.

Plants’ stomatal conductance drops when water-stressed in the soil,

resulting in reduced transpiration. This suggests that plants growing on
soils with limited water availability will experience a rise in canopy

temperature. Thus, by monitoring the canopy temperature in the
infrared                                             band, thermal imaging may be utilised to 
calculate stomatal
conductance and plant evapotranspiration (Jones, 1999, 2004; Merlot

et al., 2002). According to research on various plants, the potential for
thermal imaging in BSR detection may be investigated and utilised

further, as BSR damages the roots of the trees, affecting water

transportation and leading to water stress in the oil palm trees.

Although a previous study has been undertaken to detect BSR-

infected trees using a thermal technique (Bejo et al., 2015; Johari et al.,
2021), our research is unique in terms of camera parameters used to

capture and process tree images. This study is novel in terms of camera
parameters                                               used to capture tree images since it 
considers the impacts


of various radiation sources, such as emissivity, reflection temperature,
and                                          other environmental variables (atmospheric 
temperature,

environmental humidity, and camera proximity), in contrast to previous
studies                                                that used the default camera’s thermal 
camera parameters. The
default camera settings utilised in the previous investigation were

emissivity values of 0.98, the atmospheric temperature of 20 °C,

reflected apparent temperature (RAT) of 20 °C, and relative humidity of
50%. While we retained the emissivity value of 0.98 for this study, the
RAT value was changed to match the value reflected by the reflector.

The reflector is placed within the infrared camera’s field of view, and
the reflector’s emissivity determines its temperature. The reflector
temperature                                               is used to determine the RAT value. 
Meanwhile,

environmental temperature and relative humidity were monitored
every                                             30 min and found to be between 24–30 °C and 
67–92%,

respectively. Additionally, earlier research standardised the image
temperature scale between 24 and 34 °C to ensure that the pixel

intensity matched the actual temperature representation, in contrast to
this study, which evaluated each thermal image by concentrating on

temperature variance. In this regard, we are enhancing current

techniques and developing novel methods for detecting BSR disease in
oil palm fields.

20.4 Machine Learning in Crop Disease

Smart farming is a new concept that uses high-precision algorithms to
make agriculture more efficient and effective. It is driven by ML, the
scientific field that allows machines to learn without being explicitly
programmed. It provides new ways to measure, resolve, and

comprehend data-intensive processes in agricultural operational

contexts and high-performance computing and big data technology.

Instead of relying on equations defined as models, ML algorithms
compute                                        information directly from data (Chang et al., 2018). 
ML
algorithms have been employed in a variety of applications in the

recent decade, including land cover mapping (Abdi, 2020; Jamali, 2020;
Pan                                                 et al., 2020), forest monitoring (Lee et al., 
2018; Li et al., 2013; Liu
et al., 2018), and agricultural monitoring (Mirani et al., 2021; Liakos et


al., 2018; More & Singla, 2019; Rakhra et al., 2022). Precision farming,
also                                             known as digital farming (Liakos et al., 2018), 
has benefited from
ML technologies. Controlling pests and diseases are a significant

problem in digital agriculture. ML algorithms have also been employed
to                                             classify remote sensing data and identify plant 
diseases (Sharma et
al., 2021).

20.4.1 Machine Learning in BSR Disease Detection

Due to its ability to forecast, predict, and classify phenomena related to
biology, the ML algorithm has become an accepted technique for
agricultural researchers. ML has emerged in facilitating strategic
management processes by monitoring and observing early information
on plant health. Several researchers have investigated BSR disease

detection using ML.

Table 20.1 summarises the ML algorithms used to detect and

categorise the degree of BSR infection in oil palms. Numerous input
data                                             sets were employed, and several ML approaches were 
used to
achieve various accuracy levels.

Table 20.1 List of ML algorithms employed for BSR detection


Type of data
used

Odour
Spectral image

Electrical
properties

Thermal image

ML

algorithm

LDA

kNN
ANN
RF
SVM
QDA
SVM

Capability for severity level
classification

No
Yes
Yes
No
Yes
Yes
No

Accuracy
(%)

100

97

100

91

54

80.79

89.2

Reference

Abdullah et al.
(2012)

Liaghat et al.
(2014)

Ahmadi et al.
(2017)

Santoso et al.
(2017)

Santoso et al.
(2019)

Khaled et al.
(2018)

Bejo et al.
(2018)


Type of data
used

SAR image
Points cloud

ML

algorithm

MLP
KNB

Capability for severity level
classification

Yes
Yes

Accuracy
(%)

77

85

Reference

Hashim et al.
(2021b)

Husin et al.
(2020)

20.5 Imbalanced Data Approach

In machine learning, the derivation of classifiers is in minimising
misclassified                                             errors and maximising predictive 
performance (Wang &
O’Boyle, 2018). The underlying assumption in these classification
methods is that the dataset under investigation comprises a generally
balanced number of examples for each specified class. Thus, prior
probabilities are expected to be comparable (Guo et al., 2008).

Nonetheless, in a number of real-world fields, such as precision
medicine,                                           most classification data tends to tilt towards 
negative class
values. The data is considered imbalanced if one of the target variable
values has a significantly lesser number of instances than the others.

Skewness was used to describe imbalanced class problems

(Longadge et al., 2013). The authors stated that the issue occurs when a
dataset is skewed severely, leading to a high false negatives (FN) rate.

Class imbalance is a fundamental problem that affects a wide variety of
real-world applications, including fraud detection (Warghade et al.,

2020), text classification (Padurariu & Breaban, 2019), image and facial
recognition (Huang et al., 2020), and clinical diagnosis (Fotouhi et al.,

2019). In addition, a study highlighted the uneven class impacts of oil
pollution monitoring systems employing SAR to detect and prevent the
consequences of oil spills on the environment and prevent illegal
dumping (Ouyang et al., 2017). Nevertheless, the database has far fewer
oil spill images than those without oil spills, based on only 10% of the
spills originating from the sea beds. This further creates challenges

linked to data processing results interpretation (Guo et al., 2008).

20.5.1 Data-Level Approaches


Data-level techniques that deal with imbalanced datasets can maintain
balanced                                          distribution through the performance of some 
alteration or
modification in the number of minority and majority class instances

(Spelmen & Porkodi, 2018). Resampling reduces imbalance by changing
the                                             number of instances of each class type which often 
uses sampling
methods like under-sampling, oversampling, or a combination of both

(Ali et al., 2013). Resampling approaches are more flexible since they
are                                        independent of the classifier employed (López et al., 
2013).

20.5.1.1 Under-Sampling

In the case of unbalanced data, under-sampling is one of the most
straightforward                                           solutions. To balance the dataset, the 
principal under-
sampling approach randomly excludes cases from the majority class

(Tahir et al., 2009) Under-sampling the majority class, most usually
done                                              as random under-sampling (RUS), is the simplest 
yet most

effective approach.

The RUS randomly discards the majority class instances until a
more balanced distribution is achieved (Hoens & Chawla, 2013).

Consider the following scenario: you have a dataset with 50 samples of
the majority group and 20 samples of the minority group. By removing
30 majority group samples at random, the RUS attempts to generate an
equal group distribution. The final dataset will have 40 samples: 20
minority and 20 majority groups.

20.5.1.2 Oversampling

When dealing with an imbalanced class problem, another typical
sample technique is oversampling. Random oversampling (ROS) and
synthetic                                        sampling are some of the oversampling approaches 
available
(Chawla et al., 2002; Estabrooks et al., 2004).

Minority group samples are duplicated and reproduced in the
dataset by ROS until an equal distribution is achieved. As a result, if
there are 50 samples of the majority group and two samples of the

minority group, typical oversampling might duplicate the two minority
group                                            samples 24 times. There will be 100 samples in the 
created
dataset: 50 samples from the majority group and 50 samples from the
minority group (i.e., 25 from the two minority group samples each).


Only those minority group values with samples that fall on the border
between                                               the majority and minority group values are 
resampled in

targeted oversampling.

20.5.1.3 Synthetic Minority Oversampling Technique
(SMOTE)

SMOTE is a sampling technique in which synthetic examples are used to
generate more samples from the minority group (Chawla et al., 2002).

These new artificial minority class instances were created by
interpolating between samples taken from tight proximity to the
minority population. SMOTE generates a random minority class

representative and finds its nearest minority class neighbour. The
synthetic                                           instance is created using a random selection of 
one of the k-
next neighbours, B, and joining A and B in space attributes to make a

line segment. Two samples, A and B, are convexly combined to form the
synthetic samples (He & Garcia, 2009). Finally, new instances of
minority classes are generated.

The study’s key novelty and contribution is an investigation into the
link between the degree of class imbalance and the performance of the
related ML algorithm. In agriculture, however, this is not thoroughly

researched. In spite of the fact that many individuals are aware that

class imbalance causes problems, no in-depth studies into the precise
effects                                                of class imbalance have been carried out.

20.6 Experimental Methodology

The research method is a crucial part of any study. It indicates the study
approaches                                               used to collect, pre-process, and analyse 
data to achieve a
suitable result. In this study, the research method consists of four

different processes. This process refers to field data collection for

thermal images, image processing for thermal data, statistical analysis
of                                             data, and finally, the classification employed to 
discriminate between
the non-infected and BSR-infected trees.

20.6.1 Thermal Data Acquisition


Data were collected using a FLIR T620 IR thermal imaging camera

(FLIR Systems, Inc., Wilsonville, OR). Each tree section’s trunk images
were randomly captured from three distinct angles. The tree was

13 years old and was more than 4 m high. The thermal camera is
positioned                                                 at the height of 1 m above the ground 
and a distance of 1 m
from the tree’s trunk. There were two separate morning and afternoon
sessions to gather images of trunk sections. The morning session ran

from 7:30 to 10:00 AM. Meanwhile, the images from the afternoon
session were taken between 4:30 and 7:00 PM. This selection process is
based                                              on the progressive solar thermal energy 
absorption by crop
plants during daytime hours. Furthermore, when the environmental

temperature increases throughout the day, these objects become less
distinguishable from other warm objects detected and highlighted by
the camera’s sensor. Figure 20.2 illustrates the camera position for

trunk image acquisition.


Fig. 20.2 Position of the thermal camera when capturing the image trunk

We selected 92 oil palm tree samples at random for this study.

According to their health status, the samples were divided into two

groups: non-infected (55 samples) and BSR-infected (37 samples). The
BSR-infected trees were assessed by an expert from the Malaysian Oil
Palm Board according to the visual signs.

It is possible to derive the object’s temperature (Tobj) using Eq.

(20.1). Temperature measurements are performed by various camera
manufacturers using similar equations (Frank E. Liebmann, 2010). The
camera, or software, needs several variable inputs to properly

determine the object’s temperature to solve Eq. (20.1).


(20.1)

where εobj denotes the emissivity of the object, Tref denotes the

temperature of the reflected, τatm denotes the transmittance of the
atmosphere, and Tatm denotes the temperature of the surrounding
atmosphere. The transmittance of the atmosphere is often determined
by the distance between the object and the camera as well as the

relative humidity. Commonly, the value is close to one. Due to the fact
that                                              the emittance of the atmosphere is near zero (1 − 
τatm), this

feature has a minor influence on temperature readings. The emissivity
of                                             the object and the reflected temperature, on the 
other hand, have a
considerable influence on temperature measurement and must be

precisely determined.

20.6.1.1 Emissivity Measurement

An emissivity coating approach was used to assess the emissivity of the
oil palm tree’s surface in this experimental investigation (Usamentiaga
et al., 2014). If a part of the surface under study can be coated with a
black paint with a known emissivity, the emissivity of the surface may
be determined by adjusting the emissivity setting on the device until

the surface temperatures measured on the coated and uncoated
surfaces                                             are comparable (Buchlin, 2010). Black 
electrical tape has also
been used instead of black paint in several past studies (Avdelidis &

Moropoulou, 2003; Bazilian et al., 2002; Cerdeira et al., 2011; Fokaides
&                                         Kalogirou, 2011). The configuration of the emissivity is 
then changed
until the actual temperature is measured. The emissivity configuration
is then modified until the actual temperature is determined. The final

configurable emissivity is equal to the object’s emissivity. As an

outcome, the temperature of the oil palm tree and the temperature of

the tape recorded by the thermal camera were the same at emissivity of
0.98.

20.6.1.2 Re𝑓lected Apparent Temperature (RAT)


It is important to calibrate the reflected apparent temperature to get an
accurate measurement. Aluminium foil crumpled and re-flattened is a

frequently used alternative (Usamentiaga et al., 2014). To calculate the
temperature of the reflector, we use an emissivity of one and a distance
of 0 in conjunction with the infrared camera’s viewfinder. Repeat the

test using the reflector’s temperature as the reflector. The resulting
temperature value is the final reflected temperature.

20.6.1.3 Atmospheric Temperature and Humidity

It is also possible for a camera to consider the influence of

environmental temperatures. The camera’s design indicates that

transmittance is a function of the relative humidity in the surrounding
environment. Every half hour, the temperature and humidity of the

environment were measured with a TFA Dostmann Digital Thermo-
Hygrometer                                         (30.5002). (TFA-Dostmann.de., 
Wertheim-Reicholzheim,
Germany).

20.6.1.4 Object-to-Camera Distance

In order to capture the fruiting body of G. boninense on the basal trunk
of                                                 a palm tree, we fixed the distance between the 
object and the

camera’s front lens to 1 m and focussed the camera at the height of 1 m.

20.6.2 Pre-processing of Thermal Images

The variation of temperature for each of the thermal images was
analysed                                              using the camera manufacturer’s software, 
FLIR ResearchIR
Max (FLIR Systems, Inc., Oregon, United States). This study utilises two
primary image processing processes: image enhancement and
identifying the region of interest (ROI).

Image enhancement aims to increase the perceived benefits of
images for human viewers or aid in the computer processing of other
image-based                                         approaches. Scale Limits From Image and Plateau
Equalisation were employed in this study (PE). Scale Limits From
Image’s purpose is to examine the complete image in order to identify
the scale’s minimum and maximum values; in contrast, PE allows for

good contrast in virtually all settings. The PE slider will enable users to
adjust the algorithm’s aggressiveness and the intensity of the image


improvements. Figure 20.3 illustrates the difference between the
images before and after the image-enhancing technique.

Fig. 20.3 The difference between the images before and after the image-
enhancing technique

The next consideration is that the oil palm trunk region must be
segregated                                              from its surrounding area. The procedure 
begins by
identifying areas that are most likely to contain foreground objects
within the image. The current software defines these regions using the
box, ellipse, line, bendable line, polygon, freehand, spot cursor, and
measurement cursor forms. This study represented the region of

interest (ROI) by a polygon due to the oil palm tree’s irregular trunk
surfaces. The ROI temperature polygon for oil palm trees is shown in
Fig. 20.4.


Fig. 20.4 The ROI ith fusion and grayscale temperature polygon for oil palm
trees

20.6.3 Thermal Image Feature Extraction

Feature extraction is a process for reducing the dimension of an image
by                                          efficiently representing its most notable components as 
a compact
feature vector. FLIR Tools in the FLIR ResearcherIR environment
software were used to extract features from each thermal image. The
following features were extracted from the ROI of the thermal images

that represent the oil palm trees: maximum temperature of the oil palm
trunk (Tmax), minimum temperature of the oil palm trunk (Tmin), the

centre temperature of the oil palm trunk (Tcenter), mean temperature of
the oil palm trunk (Tmean), and standard deviation temperature of the

oil palm trunk (Tsd). Each characteristic retrieved from three images
was averaged. The statistical Analysis of Variance (ANOVA) was

performed on each temperature feature to discover which one was the
most significant in distinguishing between non-infected and BSR-

infected trees.

20.6.4 Statistical Analysis

The following ANOVA tests were used in this study; (1) to determine

the temperature characteristics of non-infected and BSR-infected trees
during the morning and evening sessions; and (2) to determine the


relationship between non-infected and BSR-infected trees and the
thermal camera’s characteristic temperature.

20.6.5 Machine Learning Approach

The Waikato Environment for Knowledge Analysis (WEKA) version

3.8.5 was utilised to distinguish between non-infected and BSR-infected
trees                                           throughout the process of classification. Three ML 
approaches

were used:

1. Naive Bayes (NB) is a generative probabilistic model based on the
notion of predictor feature conditional independence (Frank et al.,
2000). It enables the estimation of class-conditional probabilities
for the sample data, which may be determined straight from the

training data instead of evaluating all feature possibilities
(Christopher                                       M. Bishop, 2006).

2. Multilayer perceptron (MLP) is a feed-forward artificial neural
network model that maps input datasets to a collection of
acceptable outputs. MLPs are formed when numerous layers of
nodes are joined (Marius et al., 2009). Each node, with the

exception of the input nodes, is a neuron (or processing element)
with                                             a nonlinear activation function. The MLP employs a 
supervised
learning approach termed backpropagation to train the network

(Stań czyk, 2013). MLP is a variation of conventional linear

perception that is capable of discriminating between non-linearly
separable                                          inputs.

3. Random forest (RF) algorithm is a classification method that
provides a collection of stochastic decision trees. Each tree is

trained using a unique bootstrap sample drawn from the original
datasets. A majority vote derived from an ensemble of trees

generated using the RF approach is used to assign the dataset
(Immitzer et al., 2012). Significant benefits include excellent

predictive performance, resistance to noise, and effectiveness when
dealing with an imbalanced sample (Breiman, 2001; Guo et al.,

2008; Rodriguez-Galiano et al., 2012).


20.6.6 Imbalance Data Approach

We are concentrating on the minority group. This analysis was
hampered by a data imbalance caused by the lower number of BSR-
infected samples compared to non-infected ones. A data-level method
will                                                be used to overcome this problem. In terms of 
data-level imbalance
management, the incidence of the two classes is algorithmically

equalised to increase the imbalance ratio.

RUS, ROS, and SMOTE resampling techniques were used in this

investigation. For resampling, WEKA, an open-source machine learning
application, was used. The resampling parameters were obtained prior
to classification and are summarised in Table 20.2.

Table 20.2 A description of the parameters that were utilised in the
imbalanced methods

Imbalanced approach Technique Parameter

Data sampling       RUS     distributionSpread = 1

ROS     biasToUniformClass = 1
noReplacement = false

SMOTE   classValue = 0
nearestNeighbors = 5

percentage = 50

For testing reasons, we partitioned the dataset into 70% training
data                                              and 30% test data. The technique utilised to 
pre-process the
dataset for non-infected and BSR-infected trees is illustrated in Table
20.3.

Table 20.3  A pre-processed dataset for non-infected and BSR-infected trees
using an imbalanced approach


Imbalanced
approach

Training

Non-infected
(majority)

BSR-infected
(minority)

Testing

Non-infected
(majority)

BSR-infected
(minority)


Single (without data   38         25

imbalance approach

RUS            25         25

17         12

12         12


Imbalanced
approach

Training

Non-infected
(majority)

BSR-infected
(minority)

Testing

Non-infected
(majority)

BSR-infected
(minority)


ROS
SMOTE

31         31

38         38

14         14

17         17

20.7 Experimental Evaluation

In order to identify between healthy and BSR-affected palm trees, we
analysed the outcomes of integrating algorithms and imbalance
methodologies.

20.7.1 Time Session Selection

The two-way ANOVA was used to assess the main effects of status (non-
infected and infected with BSR) and session (morning and evening) on
the mean temperature of the oil palm trees and their interaction effects.

The effects of status and session were statistically significant at

p < 0.005., as shown in Table 20.4. The main effect for the status

generated an F ratio of F (1,180) = 9.70, p < 0.002, demonstrating a
substantial difference between non-infected and BSR-infected oil palm
trees. The main effect for the session resulted from an F ratio of F

(1,180) = 284.851, p < 0.001, showing a significant difference between
the                                            morning and evening sessions. The interaction effect 
was
statistically significant F (1,180) = 18.596, p < 0.001. Based on these
results, it can be inferred that data collection for the thermal image

acquisition process in the trunk area can take place in the morning and
evening.

Table 20.4 ANOVA summary table for mean temperature extracted from the
thermal images

Source     df  Mean square F     Sig.  Partial eta squared

Status     1   20.382     9.700   0.002 0.051

Session    1   598.529     284.851 0.000 0.613

Status * Time 1   39.073     18.596  0.000 0.094

Error     180 2.101


Source

Total

df

183

Mean square F

Sig.

Partial eta squared

*Factor interactions, df degrees of freedom, F variance ratio, Sig.

significant

Figure 20.5a depicts the relationship between feature temperature
(Tmean)                                               and the health of oil palm trees; Fig. 20.5b 
depicts the

relationship between feature temperature (Tmean) and the session of a
thermal image; and Fig. 20.5c depicts the interaction effect of feature
temperature (Tmean) with the health of oil palm and session.


Fig. 20.5  (a) The relationship between feature temperature (Tmean) and the
status of the oil palm trees. (b) The relationship between feature temperature
(Tmean) and the session captured in thermal image. (c) The interaction effect of
feature temperature (Tmean) with the healthiness of oil palm and session

The microclimate of insects, parasites, fungi, and other organisms is
influenced by the temperature of a tree’s trunk. For a plant’s survival
and to help regulate its temperature, water is taken up from the soil by
its roots and transported to its leaves via the xylem. Cooling and
maintaining the plant’s temperature and transferring nutrients to the

leaves for photosynthesis are two of the most significant tasks of

transpiration (Sterling, 2005). The trunk’s surface temperature changes
almost                                             instantly in response to the surrounding 
environment. In

contrast, the temperature may take some time to follow the surface at a
large depth in the trunk. Oil palm trees infected with BSR have lower

transpiration rates as a result of the damaged basal tissue. The infected
BSR                                              tree’s temperature is higher than that of the 
non-infected tree
because the plant is unable to cool itself down (Harun & Noor, 2006).

Due to the contradicting conclusion that the evening temperature of
BSR-infected trees is lower than that of non-infected trees, this
phenomenon can be elaborated by referencing Omran (2017), who

found peanut leaf spots. Because leaf tissue that is dead or seriously
injured                                                has a lower thermal capacity than normal 
tissue, it can be
heated more easily and emits more light. However, dead leaf tissue can
be cooled more quickly than healthy tissue. This explains the increased
brilliance of the diseased plant in the afternoon, which corresponds to
the fall in air temperature.

As stated previously, the properties of non-infected and infected

BSR trees vary significantly between the morning and evening sessions.
The                                            morning (7:30–10:00 AM) and evening (6:00–10:00 PM) 
thermal
imaging sessions are deemed optimal for determining the health state
of oil palms (4.30–7:00 PM). In this study, however, we only analysed
data from the morning session, as thermal cameras are often more

effective in the morning than in the afternoon.

20.7.2 Selection of Feature Temperature


Table 20.5 contains a summary of the ANOVA test findings. The
significance                                               of the ANOVA result can be observed in 
all of the feature
temperatures, Tmean, Tsd, Tcenter, Tmax, and Tmin. The feature

temperatures are then deemed to be suitable for further categorisation
of                                             the oil palm trees.

Table 20.5  The results of an ANOVA that compared the mean values of Tmean,
Tsd, Tcenter, Tmax, and Tmin for non-infected and BSR-infected oil palm trees

Feature P value Significance

Tmean  <0.0001 Yes

Tsd   <0.0001 Yes

Tcenter <0.0001 Yes

Tmax  <0.0001 Yes

Tmin  0.0392  Yes

20.7.3 Classification Analysis of Feature Temperature

The thermal image features were classified into non-infected and BSR-
infected trees using the imbalanced data methods RUS, ROS, and

SMOTE, as well as without an imbalanced data method using numerous
classification techniques, including NB, MLP, and RF. Figures 20.6, 20.7
and 20.8 show the AUC, PRC, and success rate (%) of non-infected and
BSR-infected trees, respectively.


Fig. 20.6 The area under the curve (AUC) for the NB, MLP, and RF classifiers
with respect to the temperature feature

Fig. 20.7 The area Precision-Recall Curve (PRC) for the NB, MLP, and RF
classifier with respect to feature temperature



Fig. 20.8 Non-infected (N) and BSR-infected (I) feature temperature success
rates (%)

The results of the AUC and PRC are fairly consistent (Fig. 20.6 and
20.7). The Tmax feature with the RF classifier and ROS method had the
best AUC and PRC (outstanding) values at 0.921 and 0.902. The Tmax
features increase AUC and PRC over a single (without an imbalanced
data technique) by combining the RF classifier with the ROS approach.
The AUC and PRC are the lowest when using the RUS technique on all
features and classifiers.

Figure 20.8 depicts the success rates of each feature for the three

classifiers NB, MLP, and RF. In contrast to the other two classifiers, NB is
less effective at classifying BSR-infected trees. The Tmax feature has the
highest overall success rate across the three classifiers, whereas the RF
classifier has the highest success rate for categorising non-infected and
BSR-infected trees. Meanwhile, the ROS technique has a maximum
success rate of 87.10% for non-infected trees and 100.00% for BSR-
infected trees in terms of the imbalanced approach employing RF

classifier.

The findings of the ANOVA model for the effect of features,
imbalanced methods, classifiers, and two-way interaction

(Feature*Imbalance Approach, Feature*Classifier, and Imbalance
Approach*Classifier) on AUC and PRC for non-infected and BSR-

infected trees are presented in Table 20.6. At the α = 0.05 level, two
major factors (feature and imbalance approach) and their two-way
interaction are statistically significant for the AUC and PRC response
variables. One major factor, “Classifier,” was determined not to be
significant for PRC.

Table 20.6  ANOVA for the effect of features, imbalanced approaches, and
classifiers on AUC and PRC across non-infected and BSR-infected trees

Source        AUC                    PRC


Feature

DF  Sum of
squares

7  0.451

F Ratio

139.611

Prob > F DF

<0.0001a 7

Sum of
squares

0.254

F Ratio

95.663

Prob > F

<0.0001a


Source

AUC

DF  Sum of
squares

F Ratio Prob > F

PRC

DF  Sum of
squares

F Ratio Prob > F


Imbalance
Approach

Classifier

Feature*
Imbalance
Approach

Feature* Classifier

Imbalance
Approach*
Classifier

Error

C. Total

3  0.135

2  0.003

21 0.026

14 0.068

6  0.067

42 0.019

95 0.769

97.435

3.394

2.691

10.496

24.031

<0.0001a 3

0.0430a  2

0.0031a  21

<0.0001a 14

<0.0001a 6

42

<0.0001 95

0.135

0.002

0.018

0.056

0.080

0.016

0.561

118.367

2.935

2.279

10.610

34.975

<0.0001a

0.0641

0.0114a

<0.0001a

<0.0001a

<0.0001

aThe mean difference is significant at the 0.05 level

Considering that each of the major components is statistically
significant, Tukey’s HSD test was run to discover which levels of these
factors result in significantly different performances than the other

levels of that factor. The first section of Table 20.7 presents the HSD test
results for the major factors characteristic. This factor has eight levels

(the eight temperature features used for classification), and each is
allocated                                                  a letter based on its average 
performance (across all the other
factors). The results of all response variables demonstrate a generally

consistent result for AUC and PRC. The Tmax, Tmin combination feature
exceeds                                                all other features in the AUC, whereas Tmax 
surpasses all other
features in the PRC. Tukey’s HSD result demonstrates that the

combination of temperature features Tmax, Tmin did not differ
statistically                                              from the Tmax feature and the 
combination Tmean, Tsd, Tcenter,

Tmax, Tmin, but it did differ substantially from the other temperature
feature                                               in AUC. In PRC, however, the Tmax feature was 
not statistically

distinct from the Tmax, Tmin combination feature, but it was significantly
distinct                                               from the other temperature features. The Tsd 
feature, on the


other hand, is shown to be lower than the statistically significant
margin                                            of all other temperature features.

Table 20.7  A comparison of the mean values of AUC and PRC obtained from
Tukey’s HSD test based on features, imbalanced approaches, classifiers, and
the interaction between imbalance approach and classifier

AUC                  Mean  PRC                  Mean

Feature

Tmax, Tmin              0.810a  Tmax                 0.789a

Tmax                  0.807a  Tmax, Tmin              0.778ab
Tmean, Tsd, Tcenter, Tmax, Tmin 0.795ab Tmean, Tsd, Tcenter, Tmax, Tmin 0.762bc
Tmin                  0.779bc Tmin                  0.749cd

Tmean                 0.766cd Tmean, Tsd              0.738cd

Tmean, Tsd              0.760cd Tmean                 0.737cd

Tcenter                0.749d  Tcenter                0.727d

Tsd                   0.583e  Tsd                   0.611e
Imbalanced approach

ROS                  0.799a  ROS                  0.772a

SMOTE                0.777b  SMOTE                0.759a

Single                 0.751c  Single                 0.741b

RUS                  0.698d  RUS                  0.674c

Classifier

MLP                  0.764a  NB                   0.742a

NB                   0.754ab MLP                  0.737a

RF                   0.751b  RF                   0.730a

Imbalance approach*Classifier

ROS-RF                0.854a  ROS-RF                0.833a

SMOTE-MLP             0.794b  SMOTE-MLP             0.769b


AUC

Single-MLP
ROS-NB
SMOTE-NB
ROS-MLP
SMOTE-RF

Single-NB
RUS-MLP

Single-RF

Mean

0.783b

0.779b

0.777b

0.763b

0.761b

0.758b

0.717c

0.712cd

PRC

Single-MLP
SMOTE-NB

Single-NB
ROS-NB
SMOTE-RF
ROS-MLP

Single-RF
RUS-NB

Mean

0.767b

0.765b

0.758bc

0.754bc

0.743bc

0.728cd

0.698de

0.692e

Means that do not share a letter are significantly different. Each of these
factor                                               levels is associated with a grouping letter. 
If any factor levels have
the same letter, then the multiple comparison method did not

determine a significant difference between the mean response. For any
factor level that does not share a letter, a significant mean difference
was identified. For example, from Imbalanced Approach factor level, we
see each of Imbalance Approach has a different letter, i.e., no groups
share a letter. Therefore, we can conclude that all four Imbalanced

Approach resulted in statistically significant different mean in AUC.
Furthermore, with the order of the means also provided from highest to
lowest, we can say that ROS resulted in the highest mean in AUC

followed by SMOTE, then Single, then Feed RUS

* Means in the same column with different letters according to group
types                                               are substantially different at p < 0.05

The major factor levels of the four imbalance techniques perform
significantly differently, with the ROS approach surpassing the three
other ways in AUC and PRC. Nonetheless, the RUS approach is lower
than all other imbalance approaches by a statistically significant
margin.

In terms of AUC, MLP did not differ statistically from NB; however, it
did differ significantly from RF. There is no statistically significant

difference between the three classifiers in PRC’s major factor.


The mean AUC and PRC values for the imbalance technique and

classifier interaction are also shown in Table 20.7. ROS-RF had a higher
mean value for the imbalance approach and classifier and significantly
deviated                                            from other interactions. RUS-RF was the lowest 
performance
in terms of AUC and PRC.

20.7.4 The Effect of Classifiers on Model Performance

These three ML algorithms employed in this research perform similarly
in                                      distinguishing non-infected and BSR-infected trees 
according to the
AUC, PRC, and success rate. To maximise each classification system, we
must comprehend their output.

Both of the following should be taken into account prior to
implementing an algorithm: (1) Performance: while choosing a
classification or regression algorithm, the overall output of the

algorithm is an important factor to consider. (2) Robustness: while
evaluating                                         performance, it is critical to examine the 
robustness of the
application instead of the consistency of the fitting. In this case, we rule
out the possibility of over-generalisation. Restricting the number of
models an algorithm can suggest can help to mitigate this. In this

context, MLP and RF can both be deployed, and each offers a distinct set
of                                             benefits in addition to certain drawbacks. 
Furthermore, each of these
methods is competent in dealing with ambiguity and over-fitting. In

contrast to NB, this approach estimates the conditional probability of

each class value while classifying a new instance. As the expected class,
it                                           chooses based on the highest probability. The approach 
estimates the
necessary probability values using training data. In order to make

calculation manageable, this method uses the naive assumption that
almost all input variables are conditionally independent of the class
value.

In reality, each of these three classifiers can be used for a variety of
purposes. There is no single algorithm that will work throughout each
situation, according to ML. A lack of a single approach consistently
surpasses all others, resulting in a wide variation in the results of an
algorithm based on its applicability and dataset sizes. As a result, the
best learning algorithm may be determined by comparing the results of
various algorithms. In order to maximise the benefits of each model’s


strengths while minimising its weaknesses, it is beneficial to integrate
models                                           generated using a variety of methodologies.

20.7.5 The Effect of Data Imbalance on Classification

As a supervised learning process, classification relies heavily on the

training dataset. Training level has a significant impact on the accuracy
of                                              the resulting classifier. In this circumstance, the 
imbalanced aspect of
the datasets is a significant drawback. Due to the infrequent occurrence
of minor classes, the classifier’s training is insufficient, resulting in

erroneous predictions. In the case of multiclass classifiers, this
imbalance results in the underrepresentation of entries, leading to their
complete                                          disregard. The majority of classifiers implicitly 
assume their
data to be balanced; therefore, standard classifiers have a majority bias.

Countering data imbalance is typically one of the most important
research topics in real-time categorisation. The fundamental
assumption                                                of classifiers that operate on data is 
that the data are
balanced. Therefore, the weight assigned to each sample is equal.

However, in the presence of imbalanced data, this form of operation

results in a classifier that favours the majority classes. Minority groups
can even be disregarded during the rule-making procedure if the level
of imbalance is sufficiently great. For this case, data balancing methods
have                                            been developed. Modifying existing algorithms to 
improve the

weightage of minority classes, boosting their contribution levels, or
sampling might be used to manage data.

This research explores the RUS, ROS, and SMOTE imbalanced

techniques for addressing the imbalance issue. Even though this is not a
comprehensive list, it serves as a good starting point for further

research. This research indicates that the ROS technique outperforms
the                                         single (without class imbalance) approach. It is more 
effective at
categorising non-infected and BSR-infected oil palm trees.

Furthermore, no single technique or model is optimal across all issues,
so                                                 it is highly suggested to test a variety of 
strategies and models to see
which one is most effective.

20.8 Conclusions


In conclusion, by simply employing the Tmax feature, RF can predict
BSR                                            disease with a level of accuracy that is 
comparatively outstanding
compared to MLP and NB, which have a level of acceptable accuracy.

The potential use of thermal data and an unbalanced data method are

two significant benefits extracted from this research. These approaches
can                                                 be used in conjunction with ML algorithms to 
categorise oil palm

trees that have been infected with G. boninense. In the future,
investigations                                           with samples of varying degrees of 
severity will be

utilised to investigate temperature features and identify oil palm trees
that                                              have been infected with BSR disease.

Acknowledgements

The authors would like to thank the open-access journal Agronomy,
published by MDPI, for its policy of allowing the reuse of published
articles. With this in mind, we would like to thank Agronomy Journal
for publishing our article (Izrahayu Che Hashim, Abdul Rashid

Mohamed Shariff, Siti Khairunniza Bejo, Farrah Melissa Muharam and
Khairulmazmi Ahmad. Classification of Non-Infected and Infected with
Basal Stem Rot Disease Using Thermal Images and Imbalanced Data

Approach. Agronomy. 11(12), 2373. https://doi.org/10.3390/

agronomy11122373, 2021). There have been some changes made to
this chapter of the book. Thanks and appreciation to the Ministry of
Higher Education Malaysia and Universiti Teknologi Mara, Perak

Branch, for providing a scholarship and study leave to Izrahayu Che
Hashim, making this research possible. We would like to thank

Universiti Putra Malaysia for funding the journal’s publication and
providing research facilities. We would also like to thank all the
agencies involved in the production of this study, especially Felcra

Berhad Seberang Perak 10 and the Malaysian Palm Oil Board (MPOB),
for                                       contributing to the oil palm plantation site and census 
for oil palms.

References

Abdi, A. M. (2020). Land cover and land use classification performance of
machine learning algorithms in a boreal landscape using sentinel-2 data.


GIScience and Remote Sensing, 57(1), 1–20. https://doi.org/10.1080/15481603.
2019.1650447

[Crossref]

Abdullah, A. H., et al. (2012). Hand-held electronic nose sensor selection
system for basal stamp rot (BSR) disease detection. In Proceedings - 3rd
international conference on intelligent systems modelling and simulation, ISMS
2012  (pp. 737–742).

Ahmadi, P., et al. (2017). Early detection of Ganoderma basal stem rot of oil
palms using artificial neural network spectral analysis. Plant Disease, 101(6),
1009–1016. http://apsjournals.apsnet.org/doi/10.1094/PDIS-12-16-1699-RE

(September 14, 2018).
[PubMed]

Ali, A., Shamsuddin, S. M., & Ralescu, A. L. (2013). Classification with class
imbalance problem: A review. International Journal of Advances in Soft

Computing and its Applications, 7(3), 176–204.

Ariffin, D., & Idris, A. S. (1993). A selective medium for the isolation of
ganoderma from disease tissues. In PORIM international palm oil conference.
progress, prospects challenges towards the 21st century. PORIM.

Ariffin, D., Idris, A. S., & Abdul, H. H. (1989). Significance of the black line within
oil palm tissue decayed by Ganoderma boninense. Elaeis, 1(1), 11–16.

Avdelidis, N., & Moropoulou, A. (2003). Emissivity considerations in building
thermography. Energy and Buildings, 35, 663–667.

Balasundram, S. K., Golhani, K., Redmond, S. R., & Vadamalai, G. (2020).
Precision agriculture technologies for management of plant diseases. In I. U.

Haq & S. Ijaz (Eds.), Plant disease management strategies for sustainable

agriculture through traditional and modern approaches (Sustainability in plant
and crop protection) (pp. 259–274). Springer. http://link.springer.com/10.
1007/978-3-030-35955-3 (May 10, 2021).

Bazilian, M. D., Kamalanathan, H., & Prasad, D. K. (2002). Thermographic
analysis of a building integrated photovoltaic system. Renewable Energy, 26,
449–461.

Bejo, S. K., et al. (2015). Identification of healthy and BSR-infected oil palm
trees using color indices. International Journal of Agricultural and Biosystems


Engineering, 9(8), 876–879.

Bejo, S. K., et al. (2018). Detecting basal stem rot (BSR) disease at oil palm tree
using thermal imaging technique. In 14th international conference on precision

agriculture June (pp. 1–8).

Bishop, C. M. (2006). Pattern recognition and machine learning. Springer.

Bock, C. H., et al. (2020). From visual estimates to fully automated sensor-
based measurements of plant disease severity: Status and challenges for
improving accuracy. Phytopathology Research, 2(1), 1–30. https://doi.org/10.
1186/s42483-020-00049-8. (May 10, 2021).

[Crossref]

Breiman, L. (2001). Random forests. Machine Learning, 45(1), 5–32. https://
link.springer.com/article/10.1023/A:1010933404324 (January 17, 2021).

Buchlin, J. M. (2010). Convective heat transfer and infrared thermography
(IRTH). Journal of Applied Fluid Mechanics, 3(1), 55–62.

Cerdeira, F., Vázquez, M. E., Collazo, J., & Granada, E. (2011). Applicability of
infrared thermography to the study of the behavior of stone panel as building
envelopes. Energy and Buildings, 43, 1845–1851.

Chang, C.-W., Lee, H.-W., & Liu, C.-H. (2018). A review of artificial intelligence
algorithms used for smart machine tools. Inventions, 3(3), 41. http://www.
mdpi.com/2411-5134/3/3/41 (January 16, 2021).

Chawla, N. V., Bowyer, K. W., Hall, L. O., & Philip Kegelmeyer, W. (2002). SMOTE:
Synthetic minority over-sampling technique. Journal of Artificial Intelligence

Research, 16, 321–357.

Chong, K. P., Dayou, J., & Alexander, A. (2017). Current detection methods of G.
boninense infection in oil palm. In Detection and control of ganoderma boninense
in oil palm crop (pp. 13–20). Springer.

Chung, G. (2011). Management of ganoderma diseases in oil palm plantations.

Planter, 87(1022), 325–339.

Estabrooks, A., Jo, T., & Japkowicz, N. (2004). A multiple resampling method for
learning from imbalanced data sets. Computational Intelligence, 20(1), 18–36.


Fokaides, P. A., & Kalogirou, S. A. (2011). Application of infrared thermography
for the determination of the overall heat transfer coefficient (U-Value) in
building envelopes. Applied Energy, 88, 4358–4365.

Fotouhi, S., Asadi, S., & Kattan, M. W. (2019). A comprehensive data level
analysis for cancer diagnosis on imbalanced data. Journal of Biomedical
Informatics, 90, 103089.

[PubMed]

Fowotade, S. A., et al. (2019). Enhanced electrochemical sensing of secondary
metabolites in oil palms for early detection of ganoderma boninense based on
novel nanoparticle-chitosan functionalized multi-walled carbon nanotube
platform. Sensing and Bio-Sensing Research, 23, 100274. https://doi.org/10.

1016/j.sbsr.2019.100274

[Crossref]

Frank, E., Trigg, L., Holmes, G., & Witten, I. H. (2000). Technical note: Naive
bayes for regression. Machine Learning, 41(1), 5–25. https://link.springer.com/
article/10.1023/A:1007670802811 (June 22, 2021).

Gogoi, N. K., Deka, B., & Bora, L. C. (2018). Remote sensing and its use in
detection and monitoring plant diseases: A review. Agricultural Reviews, 39(4),
307–313.

Gomarasca, M. A. (2010). Basics of geomatics. Applied Geomatics, 2(3), 137–

146. https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s12518-010-0029-6 (April 15,

2021).

Guo, X., et al. (2008). On the class imbalance problem. In Proceedings - 4th
international conference on natural computation, ICNC 2008 (pp. 192–201).

Harun, M. H., & Noor, M. R. M. (2006). Canopy temperature difference (CTD) for
detecting stress. Kuala Lumpur.

Hashim, I. C., et al. (2021a). Classification of non-infected and infected with
basal stem rot disease using thermal images and imbalanced data approach.
Agronomy, 11(12), 2373. https://www.mdpi.com/2073-4395/11/12/2373/

htm (March 30, 2022).

Hashim, I. C., et al. (2021b). Machine-learning approach using SAR data for the
classification of oil palm trees that are non-infected and infected with the basal


stem rot disease. Agronomy, 11(3), 532. https://doi.org/10.3390/
agronomy11030532. (May 10, 2021).

[Crossref]

He, H., & Garcia, E. A. (2009). Learning from imbalanced data. IEEE Transactions
on Knowledge and Data Engineering, 21(9), 1263–1284.

Hoens, T. R., & Chawla, N. V. (2013). Imbalanced datasets: From sampling to
classifiers. In H. He & Y. Ma (Eds.), Imbalanced learning: Foundations, algorithms,
and applications (pp. 43–59). Wiley.

Huang, C., Li, Y., Loy, C. C., & Tang, X. (2020). Deep imbalanced learning for face
recognition and attribute prediction. IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and
Machine Intelligence, 42(11), 2781–2794.

[PubMed]

Huang, W., et al. (2007). Identification of yellow rust in wheat using in-situ
spectral reflectance measurements and airborne hyperspectral imaging.

Precision Agriculture, 8(4–5), 187–197. https://link.springer.com/article/10.

1007/s11119-007-9038-9 (May 10, 2021).

Husin, N. A., et al. (2020). Classification of basal stem rot disease in oil palm
plantations using terrestrial laser scanning data and machine learning.

Agronomy, 10(11), 1624.

Idris, A. S., & Rafidah, A. R. (2008). Polyclonal antibody for detection of

Ganoderma. In MPOB information series, June 2008 (MPOB TT No. 405). www.
mpob.gov.my (April 15, 2021).

Idris, A. S., Yamaoka, M., Noorhasimah, I., & Ariffin, D. (2003). PCR technique
for detection of Ganoderma. In MPOB information series, June 2003 (MPOB TT
No. 188) (pp. 1–4). http://palmoilis.mpob.gov.my/publications/TOT/tt188.

pdf (April 15, 2021).

Immitzer, M., Atzberger, C., & Koukal, T. (2012). Tree species classification with
random forest using very high spatial resolution 8-band WorldView-2 satellite
data. Remote Sensing, 4(9), 2661–2693. http://www.mdpi.com/2072-4292/4/

9/2661 (January 17, 2021).

Jamali, A. (2020). Land use land cover mapping using advanced machine
learning classifiers: A case study of Shiraz City, Iran. Earth Science Informatics,


13(4), 1015–1030. https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s12145-020-

00475-4 (June 29, 2021).

Johari, S. N. A' . M., et al. (2021). Detecting BSR-infected oil palm seedlings using
thermal imaging technique. Basrah Journal of Agricultural Sciences, 34(Special
Issue 1), 73–80.

Jones, H. G. (2004). Irrigation scheduling: Advantages and pitfalls of plant-
based methods. Journal of Experimental Botany, 55(407), 2427–2436. https://
academic.oup.com/jxb/article/55/407/2427/496045 (August 3, 2021).
[PubMed]

Jones, H. G. (1999). Use of infrared thermometry for estimation of stomatal
conductance as a possible aid to irrigation scheduling. Agricultural and Forest
Meteorology, 95(3), 139–149.

Kamarudin, N., Seman, I. A., Moslim, R., & Mazmira, M. (2016). Current
challenges on pests and diseases of oil palm cultivation. In MPOB paper
presented at the agriculture seminar.

Khaled, A. Y., et al. (2018). Spectral features selection and classification of oil
palm leaves infected by basal stem rot (BSR) disease using dielectric
spectroscopy. Computers and Electronics in Agriculture, 144, 297–309. https://
doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.2017.11.012

[Crossref]

Khosrokhani, M., Bejo, S. K., & Pradhan, B. (2018). Geospatial technologies for
detection and monitoring of ganoderma basal stem rot infection in oil palm
plantations: A review on sensors and techniques. Geocarto International, 33(3),
260–276. https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/full/10.1080/10106049.2016.

1243410.

Lee, J., Im, J., Kim, K., & Quackenbush, L. (2018). Machine learning approaches
for estimating forest stand height using plot-based observations and airborne
LiDAR data. Forests, 9(5), 268. http://www.mdpi.com/1999-4907/9/5/268

(January 16, 2021).

Li, M., Im, J., & Beier, C. (2013). Machine learning approaches for forest
classification and change analysis using multi-temporal landsat TM images
over Huntington wildlife forest. GIScience and Remote Sensing, 50(4), 361–384.


Liaghat, S., et al. (2014). Mid-infrared spectroscopy for early detection of basal
stem rot disease in oil palm. Computers and Electronics in Agriculture, 101, 48–
54.

Liakos, K. G., et al. (2018). Machine learning in agriculture: A review. Sensors,
18(8), 1–29.

Liebmann, F. E. (2010). Infrared target temperature correction system and
method.

Liu, J., & Wang, X. (2021). Plant diseases and pests detection based on deep
learning: A review. Plant Methods, 17, 1–18. https://doi.org/10.1186/s13007-
021-00722-9. (May 10, 2021).

[Crossref]

Liu, Z., et al. (2018). Application of machine-learning methods in forest
ecology: Recent progress and future challenges. Environmental Reviews, 26(4),
339–350.

Longadge, R., Dongre, S. S., & Malik, L. (2013). Class imbalance problem in data
mining: Review. International Journal of Computer Science and Network, 2(1).
https://www.researchgate.net/publication/236651567_Class_Imbalance_
Problem_in_Data_Mining_Review (June 29, 2021).

Ló pez, V., et al. (2013). An insight into classification with imbalanced data:
Empirical results and current trends on using data intrinsic characteristics.
Information Sciences, 250(2–3), 113–141. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ins.2013.

07.007. (June 29, 2021).

[Crossref]

Marius, P., et al. (2009). Multilayer perceptron and neural networks. WSEAS
Transactions on Circuits and Systems, 8(7), 579–588. https://www.researchgate.
net/publication/228340819 (January 17, 2021).

Mee, C. Y., Balasundram, S. K., & Husni, A. M. H. (2017). Detecting and
monitoring plant nutrient stress using remote sensing approaches: A review.
Asian Journal of Plant Sciences, 16(1), 1–8.

Merlot, S., et al. (2002). Use of infrared thermal imaging to isolate arabidopsis
mutants defective in stomatal regulation. The Plant Journal, 30(5), 601–609.


https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.1046/j.1365-313X.2002.01322.x
(August 3,  2021).

[PubMed]

Mirani, A., Azeem, et al. (2021). Machine learning in agriculture: A review.

LUME, 10, 5. www.ijstr.org (June 29, 2021).

More, S., & Singla, J. (2019). Machine learning techniques with IoT in
agriculture. International Journal of Advanced Trends in Computer Science and
Engineering, 8(3), 742–747.

Murphy, D. J., Kirstie, G., Russell, R., & Paterson, M. (2021). Oil palm in the
2020s and beyond: Challenges and solutions. CABI Agriculture and Bioscience,
2(1), 1–22. https://cabiagbio.biomedcentral.com/articles/10.1186/s43170-

021-00058-3 (May 22, 2022).

Naidu, R. A., Perry, E. M., Pierce, F. J., & Mekuria, T. (2009). The potential of
spectral reflectance technique for the detection of grapevine leafroll-associated
virus-3 in two red-berried wine grape cultivars. Computers and Electronics in

Agriculture, 66(1), 38–45.

New Straits Times. (2021). MPOB develops solution to control oil palm top
stem rot. New Straits Times. https://www.nst.com.my/business/2021/10/
732768/mpob-develops-solution-control-oil-palm-top-stem-rot (March 30,

2022).

Omran, E. S. E. (2017). Early sensing of peanut leaf spot using spectroscopy
and thermal imaging. Archives of Agronomy and Soil Science, 63(7), 883–896.

Ouyang, X., Chen, Y., & Wei, B. (2017). Experimental study on class imbalance
problem using an oil spill training data set. British Journal of Mathematics &
Computer Science, 21(5), 1–9.

Padurariu, C., & Breaban, M. E. (2019). Dealing with data imbalance in text
classification. In Procedia computer science (pp. 736–745). Elsevier.

Pan, L., Gu, L., Ren, R., & Yang, S. (2020). Land cover classification based on
machine learning using UAV multi-spectral images. In Earth observing systems
XXV, International Society for Optics and Photonics, 115011F. https://www.

spiedigitallibrary.org/conference-proceedings-of-spie/11501/115011F/Land-
cover-classification-based-on-machine-learning-using-UAV-multi/10.1117/12.
2566128.full                                                        (June 29, 2021).


Rakhra, M., et al. (2022). Implementing machine learning for smart farming to
forecast farmers’ interest in hiring equipment. Journal of Food Quality, 2022,
4721547.

Rebitanim, N. A., et al. (2020). GanoCare® improves oil palm growth and
resistance against ganoderma basal stem rot disease in nursery and field trials.
BioMed Research International, 2020, 1–16. https://doi.org/10.1155/2020/

3063710

[Crossref]

Rodriguez-Galiano, V. F., et al. (2012). An assessment of the effectiveness of a
random forest classifier for land-cover classification. ISPRS Journal of

Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing, 67(1), 93–104.

Saeidi, T., Ismail, I., Wen, W. P., & Alhawari, A. R. H. (2019). Dielectric properties
of complete oil palm trunk sample (healthy and unhealthy). AIP Advances, 9,
75314. http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/

Santoso, H., Tani, H., & Wang, X. (2017). Random forest classification model of
basal stem rot disease caused by Ganoderma Boninense in oil palm plantations.
International Journal of Remote Sensing, 38(16), 4683–4699.

Santoso, H., et al. (2019). Classifying the severity of basal stem rot disease in
oil palm plantations using WorldView-3 imagery and machine learning
algorithms. International Journal of Remote Sensing, 40(19), 7624–7646.
https://www-tandfonline-com.ezaccess.library.uitm.edu.my/doi/abs/10.

1080/01431161.2018.1541368 (February 27, 2021).

Sharma, A., Jain, A., Gupta, P., & Chowdary, V. (2021). Machine learning
applications for precision agriculture: A comprehensive review. IEEE Access, 9,
4843–4873.

Siddiqui, Y., et al. (2021). Current strategies and perspectives in detection and
control of basal stem rot of oil palm. Saudi Journal of Biological Sciences, 28(5),
2840–2849.

[PubMed][PubMedCentral]

Sighicelli, M., Colao, F., Laia, A., & Patsaeva, S. (2009). Monitoring post-harvest
orange fruit disease by fluorescence and reflectance hyperspectral imaging.

Acta Horticulturae, 817, 277–284.


Singh, G. (1991). Ganoderma - The scourge of oil palm in the coastal area. In
Proceedings of ganoderma workshop, Bangi, Selangor, Malaysia, 11 September
1990 (pp. 7–35). Palm Oil Research Institute of Malaysia.

Spelmen, V. S., & Porkodi, R. (2018). A review on handling imbalanced data. In

Proceedings of the 2018 international conference on current trends towards
converging technologies, ICCTCT 2018 (pp. 1–11). Institute of Electrical and
Electronics Engineers Inc.

Stań czyk, U. (2013). Rough set and artificial neural network approach to
computational stylistics. Smart Innovation, Systems and Technologies, 13, 441–

470. https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-642-28699-5_17

(January 17, 2021).

Sterling, T. M. (2005). Transpiration: Water movement through plants. Journal
of Natural Resources and Life Sciences Education, 34(1), 123–123. https://acsess.
onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.2134/jnrlse.2005.0123 (August 28, 2021).

Tahir, M. A., Kittler, J., Mikolajczyk, K., & Yan, F. (2009). A multiple expert
approach to the class imbalance problem using inverse random under
sampling.    In MCS 2009: Multiple classifier systems (pp. 82–91). Springer. https://
link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-642-02326-2_9 (June 30, 2021).

Usamentiaga, R., et al. (2014). Infrared thermography for temperature
measurement and non-destructive testing. Sensors, 14(7), 12305–12348.
https://www.mdpi.com/1424-8220/14/7/12305/htm (August 26, 2021).
[PubMed][PubMedCentral]

Wang, Z., & O’Boyle, M. (2018). Machine learning in compiler optimization. In
Proceedings of the IEEE (pp. 1879–1901). Institute of Electrical and Electronics
Engineers Inc.

Warghade, S., Desai, S., & Patil, V. (2020). Credit card fraud detection from
imbalanced dataset using machine learning algorithm. International Journal of
Computer Trends and Technology, 68(3), 22–28.

Yang, C. (2020). Remote sensing and precision agriculture technologies for
crop disease detection and management with a practical application example.
Engineering, 6(5), 528–532.


Zainol Hilmi, N. H., Idris, A. S., & Azmil, M. N. M. (2019). Headspace solid-phase
microextraction gas chromatography-mass spectrometry for the detection of
volatile  organic compounds released from Ganoderma boninense and oil palm
wood. Forest Pathology, 49(4), e12531. http://doi.wiley.com/10.1111/efp.

12531 (April 15, 2021).

Zhang, J., et al. (2019). Monitoring plant diseases and pests through remote
sensing technology: A review. Computers and Electronics in Agriculture, 165,
104943. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.2019.104943

[Crossref]


© The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd. 2023

T. Ahamed (ed.), IoT and AI in Agriculture

https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-19-8113-5_21

21. Early Detection of Plant Disease

Infection Using Hyperspectral Data and
Machine Learning

Aiman Nabilah Noor Azmi¹, Siti Khairunniza-Bejo¹, ², ³  ,
Mahirah Jahari¹, ² and Ian Yule⁴

(1) Department of Biological and Agricultural Engineering, Faculty of

Engineering, Universiti Putra Malaysia, Serdang, Malaysia

(2) Smart Farming Technology Research Centre, Universiti Putra
Malaysia, Serdang, Malaysia

(3) Institute of Plantation Studies, Universiti Putra Malaysia, Serdang,

Malaysia

(4) Institute of Agriculture and Environment, Massey University,
Palmerston North, New Zealand

Siti Khairunniza-Bejo

Email: skbejo@upm.edu.my

Abstract

Basal stem rot (BSR) caused by Ganoderma boninense (G. boninense)
fungus                                               is one of the most destructive diseases within 
oil palm
plantations in Southeast Asia that result in losses of up to USD500

million annually. Breeding programmes to develop planting materials
resistant to G. boninense involve a manual census to monitor the

progress of the disease development associated with various
treatments. It is prone to error due to a lack of experience and

subjective human judgements. This current research is aimed to detect
early G. boninense infections using visible-near-infrared (VIS-NIR)
hyperspectral                                         images where there are no BSR symptoms 
present. A


total of 28 samples of oil palm seedlings at 5 months old were used
whereby                                               15 of them were inoculated with the G. 
boninense pathogen.

Five months later, spectral reflectance oil palm leaflets taken from

fronds 1 (F1) and 2 (F2) were obtained from the top view of VIS-NIR
hyperspectral images. The significant bands were identified based on
the high separation between uninoculated (H) and inoculated (U)
seedlings. The results indicated that the differences were evidently
seen in the NIR spectrum. It was also demonstrated that there was no
requirement to separate F1 and F2 during the data pre-processing
stage since the use of both fronds together produced acceptable

classification accuracy. Various significant bands were later used as
datasets for the development of detection models using various types of
machine                                            learning classifiers. Results have shown a large 
number of
bands achieved a high level of classification accuracy of up to 100%,
while a small number of bands achieved a slightly lower level of

classification accuracy. In view of the economical aspect of hardware
development, a linear support vector machine (SVM) which was

developed using a single-band reflectance at 934 nm was identified as
the best model for detection since it was not only economical, but also
demonstrated a high score of accuracy (94.8%), sensitivity (97.6%),
specificity (92.5%), and an area under the receiver operating

characteristic curve (AUC) (0.95). The findings of these studies have the
potential to significantly benefit the oil palm industry by successfully
detecting asymptomatic G. boninense infection at an early stage,
allowing for prevention of disease spread.

Keywords NIR – Asymptomatic infection – Ganoderma boninense –
Non-destructive detection

21.1 Basal Stem Rot (BSR) Disease due to G.
boninense Infection

Oil palm (Elaeis guineensis) is a palm species that has been extensively
planted                                                 in Southeast Asia, primarily in Indonesia 
and Malaysia to

attempt to fulfil the global demand for vegetable oil due to increasing
population, income, and the growing biofuel market. Nevertheless, the


production of oil palm in Southeast Asia has been affected by the never-
ending                                               basal stem rot (BSR) disease caused by the G. 
boninense
pathogen. The symptoms of BSR are difficult to recognise at the early
stages since there are no significant characteristics that can be visually
detected by the naked eye (Govender et al., 2017; Rakib et al., 2019;
Wulandari et al., 2018). The earliest visual symptom of G. boninense
infection in oil palm seedlings can be seen by the presence of fruiting
bodies at the bole, followed by partial yellowing of the leaves or
mottling of the basal fronds and necrosis when more than 50% of the
stem base has been internally destroyed (Naher et al., 2015). Proper
management, including the use of planting materials (seedlings) that
are resistant to G. boninense, can reduce the effects of the disease on the
plant (Turnbull et al., 2014). Improving yields through better
management and more disease-resistant cultivation not only prevents

the spread of BSR disease in plantations and subsequent economic

losses (Turnbull et al., 2014; Idris, 2009), but also reduces and sustains
the                                             pressure to expand plantation areas, which thus can 
build towards
sustainable palm oil production. Since it is of utmost importance to
distinguish between different levels of susceptibility and resistance to
plant diseases, it is important to perform pathogen artificial inoculation
at the nursery level to create an early screening test (Breton et al.,

2009). Current nursery practice uses manual inspection which relies
heavily on the visible symptoms of the disease to monitor the

progression of various treatment-related illnesses (Parker & Gilbert,

2007; Chung, 2012) and is performed by humans. This method is prone
to                                               error due to inexperience, subjective assessment, 
and asymptomatic
cases. A lab-based method (Ariffin & Seman, 1993; Idris & Rafidah,

2008; Kandan et al., 2010; Madihah et al., 2014) is believed to be
reliable for early detection of G. boninense. However, the procedure

involves the collection of stems, which can lead to plant damage and
eventual destruction. Other proposed methods include an electronic

nose (e-nose) (Markom et al., 2009; Kresnawaty et al., 2020), electrical
impedance                                              (Khaled et al., 2018a, b), tomography 
(Mazliham et al., 2008;
Arango et al., 2016), thermal images (Bejo et al., 2018; Mohd Johari et
al., 2021), multispectral images (Bejo et al., 2018; Santoso et al., 2011),
spectroscopy or hyperspectral data (Ahmadi et al., 2017; Azmi et al.,


2020; Izzuddin et al., 2013; Lelong et al., 2010; Liaghat et al., 2014), and
ground                                               laser scanners (Bejo et al., 2018; Husin et 
al., 2020a, b, c; Nur et
al., 2021). A comprehensive review of the sensors used to detect BSR by
(Maryam et al., 2018) found that the scores differed in terms of
accuracy and limitations of each method. Based on a detailed review of
a near-infrared (NIR) spectroscopy sensor (Mohd Hilmi Tan et al.,

2021), it can be concluded that G. boninense can be detected accurately
using                                                NIR spectra. In addition, spectroscopic 
techniques have proven to
be more reliable than chemical and imaging techniques in reactions
involving organic tissues. However, the spectroscopy approach has a

limitation whereby the instrument can only make one measurement at
a time for a small sample spot, requiring a longer data acquisition
period. In contrast, hyperspectral cameras can cover a large area in a
single imaging session, reducing the data acquisition time.

21.2 Hyperspectral Imaging

Hyperspectral imaging is a technology that integrates conventional
spectroscopy                                                and imaging techniques to obtain both 
spatial and
spectral information about a scene. Hyperspectral imaging sensors
measure the light reflected from each pixel of a two-dimensional area in
narrow and contiguous wavelengths. The hyperspectral image data is in
the form of a three-dimensional structure with one spectral and two
spatial dimensions or a look-like “cube.” Therefore, every pixel in the
hyperspectral image contains a complete spectral signature equal to the
number of cube bands, as shown in Fig. 21.1. Such signatures provide
sufficient information to classify and analyse existing materials within
an image.


Fig. 21.1  Example of a hyperspectral image data cube. Each pixel consists of a
complete reflection spectrum at its band

In earlier times, hyperspectral imaging was often used for military
space-borne mapping and detection (Dale et al., 2013). Later, the
application of hyperspectral imaging has been extended to the
agricultural field. The spectral reflectance of vegetation in the

electromagnetic spectrum of 400–2500 nm may contain unique

characteristics and information (Goetz et al., 1985). For example, the
400–675 nm range (the visible spectrum) is only suitable for
examination of surface features due to the lack of penetration

capability. The 675–1000 nm (the NIR spectrum) has a better
penetration                                      capability hence the range is suitable for 
internal quality
assessment while 1000–2500 nm [short-wave infrared (SWIR)] is
sensitive to the moisture content of the sample (Huang et al., 2007).

Hyperspectral imagery has been clearly proven acceptable for
evaluating crop conditions by collecting enormous quantities of raw
data that require further processing to facilitate a wide range of
applications. For example, the imagery may be used to investigate
water status (Ezenne et al., 2019), vigour assessment (Zhang et al.,

2020), biomass estimation and yield prediction (Li et al., 2020), post-
harvest                                             (Torres et al., 2019), and disease monitoring 
(Abdulridha et al.,
2020). This technique has not yet been used extensively in the

detection of BSR in Malaysia.


21.3 Machine Learning

Machine learning is a combination of the scientific research of
algorithms                                              and statistical models to perform a 
detailed analysis that
depends on patterns and inferences (Mitchell, 1997). There are two
types of machine learning algorithms; supervised learning and
unsupervised learning. Supervised learning develops mathematical

models using a training dataset and generates an inferred function to
allow the estimation of output values. After sufficient training, the
system is able to provide predictions for any new inputs. In contrast,
unsupervised learning only includes the inputs from a dataset and
discovers any structure in the dataset using grouping or clustering data

points. The cluster usually consists of samples with identical properties
over                                                 the entire dataset (Behmann et al., 2014). 
Thus, unsupervised

learning could be used as the first step before the supervised learning
process.

Furthermore, there are two types of machine learning algorithms,
namely                                          parametric and non-parametric. Parametric 
algorithms require
prior knowledge to regulate the relationship between predictors and

targets. These algorithms have a fixed structure, are faster to train and
require fewer data points, but may not be as powerful. In contrast, non-
parametric algorithms do not require prior knowledge. However, these
algorithms are slower to train and have a higher model complexity
depending on the number of training data points but can result in more
powerful models (Kotlar et al., 2019). Examples of parametric

algorithms are logistic regression, discriminant analysis, and Naıve
Bayes. In contrast, nearest neighbour, decision trees, radial basis

function (RBF) kernel SVMs, and ensemble are considered as non-
parametric algorithms due to the application of kernel matrix by
computing the pair-wise distances between the training points.

In practice, there are two types of datasets used for machine

learning, namely training and testing datasets. The training dataset is
used by learning classifiers to construct a model, while the testing
dataset (also known as a validation dataset) is used to evaluate the
performance of the predictive model. The K-fold cross-validation

technique can be introduced to reduce bias and variance in the training


dataset. This cross-validation method splits the training dataset into

equal size K subsets (Fig. 21.2). In each iteration, one subset is reserved
as                                                  a testing dataset while the remaining k-1 
subsets left over are used
as training data. Hence, each subset becomes a testing set exactly once
and becomes a training set k-1 times. Additionally, this cross-validation
method may also improve the effectiveness of the model.

Fig. 21.2  Visual representation of training/testing split and cross-validation

Machine learning (ML) has been applied in various fields in
agriculture                                          including crop yield estimation (Su et al., 
2017), disease
detection (Ferentinos, 2018), weed detection (Pantazi et al., 2017), crop
quality (Hu et al., 2017), species recognition (Grinblat et al., 2016),
animal welfare (Matthews et al., 2017), livestock production (Morales

et al., 2016), water management (Feng et al., 2017), and soil
management                                          (Morellos et al., 2016). It can be used to 
facilitate strategic
plantation management by providing early plant health information,
and for improving the accuracy of disease severity classification from

80% (Husin et al., 2020a, b) to 85% (Husin et al., 2020c). Various types
of                                            machine learning (ML) techniques have been used to 
detect G.
boninense infection both in the nursery and in plantation fields using
different types of datasets such as odour, electrical impedance, laser
scanning data, spectral reflectance, and synthetic aperture radar (SAR)
data. Differences in accuracy assessments are due to different types of


datasets and situations, as well as different classifiers with different
properties, and different types of classifiers are sensitive to different
parameter optimisations (Husin et al., 2020a, b, c).

21.4 Research Design

This paper presents progress work on the early detection of G.
boninense infection in oil palm seedlings using hyperspectral data and
machine learning (ML) techniques (Fig. 21.3). It started with the
identification of suitable wavelengths and was then followed by the
detection process using ML techniques. Support vector machine (SVM),
a well-known ML technique for disease detection, was first used by
applying various numbers of bands as datasets. After that, the

capability of seven ML classifiers was tested. In order to overcome the
economic issues, the capability of a small number of bands was later
used as datasets for SVM models.

Fig. 21.3  Progress work on the early detection of G. boninense infection in oil
palm seedlings using hyperspectral data and Machine Learning techniques

Therefore, the research commenced with sample preparation for
the uninoculated seedlings, defined as healthy seedlings (H) in this
research; and seedlings inoculated (U) with G. boninense. This was
followed by the experimental setup of the image acquisition which
included all considerations to minimise the effects of uneven

environmental illumination, the spectral extraction of the leaflets of

frond 1 (F1) and frond 2 (F2) and removal of outliers. It continued with


spectral analyses of the extracted raw spectra, which also identified the
significant bands using t-test statistical analysis. Finally, it also included
the methods used to develop machine learning models for the

classification of the H and U seedlings using SVM, seven ML classifiers
and                                             finally SVM with band reduction.

21.4.1 Research Area

The research was conducted at the UPM Transgenic Greenhouse

(2°59′33.10″N 101°43′19.16″E), Serdang, Malaysia, from 24 January
2019 to 24 June 2019. The greenhouse had dimensions of 12 m

length × 6 m width × 4 m height and was made up of polycarbonate to
provide protection against UV light, and was equipped with air

conditioners, humidifiers, thermal screens, humidity, and temperature
sensors.                                                The temperature and humidity inside the 
greenhouse were set
at 27 °C and 90%, respectively, following the procedure proposed by
Oettli et al. (Oettli et al., 2018).

21.4.2 Preparation of Samples

A total of 28 oil palm seedlings (commercial standard crosses of Dura x
Pisifera, DxP) at the age of 4 months old were obtained from Sime
Darby Plantation Research Sdn. Bhd., Banting, Malaysia. During 2 h of

travelling to UPM, every seedling was wrapped in individual plastic and
transported in a box to maintain the quality of the seedlings. As soon as
the seedlings arrived, the seedlings were allowed to acclimatise to the
greenhouse condition for 1 month before inoculation. Only 28 oil palm
seedlings were used in this research due to the limitation of the

greenhouse size. Every seedling was arranged according to standard

nursery practice to ease the maintenance of the greenhouse. Two of the
28                                                 oil palm seedlings were used for the 
laboratory-based G. boninense
infection confirmation test, resulting in 26 oil palm seedlings available
for complete analysis.

21.4.2.1 Arti𝑓icial Inoculation

Fifteen out of the 28 oil palm seedlings were transplanted with

rubberwood blocks (RWBs) colonised with G. boninense pathogen,

referred to as inoculated seedlings. Two of the 15 inoculated seedlings


were used for the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) confirmation test.
Meanwhile, the remaining 13 seedlings were transplanted with
uncolonised RWBs referred to as uninoculated seedlings. The seedlings
were transplanted at 5 months old. The transplanting process was
achieved following the method of Naidu et al. (Naidu et al., 2018). After
transplanting, the seedlings were arranged according to the standard

triangular arrangement of the oil palm nursery with a spacing of 1 m.
All seedlings were watered 1 L daily at 10.00 am using a drip irrigation
system and fertilised every month using 50 g nitrogen (N), phosphorus
(P), and potassium (K) fertiliser.

21.4.2.2 Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR)

A polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test was used to confirm the G.
boninense infection after 2 months of inoculation, whereby two
inoculated seedlings were sent to the Bacteriology Laboratory, Faculty
of Agriculture, UPM. The Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) is a
molecular technique to detect and identify pathogens by amplifying the
specific or targeted parts of a Deoxyribonucleic Acid (DNA) sequence.

The part needed for the test was the root because the G. boninense
infection                                           starts at the roots of the oil palm. Figure 
21.4 shows an
example of an infected seedling and the associated PCR result. As
shown in Fig. 21.4a, the infected seedling did not show any visible

symptoms related to G. boninense infection such as fungal mass or foliar
symptoms such as yellowing of leaves despite testing positive with the

G. boninense pathogen. The positive result indicated that the G.
boninense pathogen had penetrated and infected the tested roots. The
specific band size was approximately 160 to 170 bp (Fig. 21.4b) that
were obtained from the roots, which authenticated the presence of the

G. boninense infection. Further confirmation was conducted using gene
sequencing analysis between the specific bands and G. boninense (taken
from the GenBank dataset). The result showed 99.5 to 100% similarity
index.


Fig. 21.4  Sample of an infected seedling. (a) Condition of an infected seedling
without symptoms i.e., no fruiting bodies or of older leaves. However, the
disease was confirmed by the (b) PCR amplification using a specific primer of

G. boninense

21.4.3 Hyperspectral Imaging

21.4.3.1 Image Acquisition

The image acquisition process was conducted inside the greenhouse.
The hyperspectral camera used in this research was a FireflEYE S185
snapshot                                            camera manufactured by Cubert GmbH, Ulm, 
Germany. The
camera provided wavelengths ranging from 450 nm to 950 nm that

covered the visible (blue, green, and red) to NIR regions. The spectral
was                                              125, with a spectral sampling of 4 nm. The 
snapshot acquisition
mode was operated by two charge-coupled devices (CCD) with a
pinhole and prisms for spatial and spectral separation.

The camera was mounted horizontally on a custom tripod and was
positioned 2.6 m from the ground level, as shown in Fig. 21.5. The
system was controlled by Cube-Pilot software (Cubert GmbH, Ulm,
Germany) supplemented by the manufacturer. The top view images of
the oil palm seedlings at an age of 5 months after the inoculation

process were taken on a sunny clear day from 11:00 am to 2:00 pm
local time to receive natural illumination.


Fig. 21.5  Illustration of hyperspectral image acquisition setup inside the
greenhouse

The camera was calibrated with white and dark references before
each                                             image acquisition to reduce the effects of 
illumination and

detector sensitivity. The integration times were almost the same. A dark
calibration was performed by closing the lens of the camera, while the
white calibration was performed by placing a provided white

rectangular board (99% light reflection) flat and close to the lens. Each
collected spectrum was calibrated as:

(21.1)

The white and dark calibration was tested before the actual image
acquisition to ensure good output image quality. It was achieved by

observing the spectral reflectance of the white reference board. If the
reflectance of the white reference board was stagnant at 100% in all


bands, the calibration was accepted, and the image acquisition process
could                                                 be continued. One seedling was imaged at a 
time, and the sample
was put on a 2 m × 2 m black background board. Since black reflects no
light, the light captured by the camera sensor while taking the image
was purely reflected by the fronds of the seedling. Figure 21.6 shows a
sample of an image taken from the top view of the seedlings to imitate
the actual application in a plantation, which uses an unmanned aerial
vehicle (UAV) to capture the image.

Fig. 21.6 Sample image taken from the top view of a seedling using a
hyperspectral camera

21.4.3.2 Spectral Extraction

The acquired hyperspectral images were processed to obtain the
spectra                                              of the uninoculated (H) and inoculated (U) 
leaves from the
leaflets of frond 1 (F1) and frond 2 (F2). Both fronds were clearly

visible in the aerial view images because they were at the top of the list
of                                              fronds. The inclination of the fronds could be used 
to distinguish

Frond 1 and Frond 2 because F1 is the youngest expanded frond and
thus                                              less inclined than F2. The spectra were extracted 
randomly from

the first four leaflets on the left and right sides of F1 and F2 (Fig. 21.7).
In                                              order to minimise spectral reflectance variations 
caused by frond
inclinations, only four leaflets were included in this research (Rapaport
et al., 2014). Each frond yielded an average of 20 spectral readings. As a


result, the spectra collected from F1 were 558 (263 for H seedlings and
295 for the U seedlings), while F2 was 564 (277 for H and 287 for the U
seedlings).

Fig. 21.7 Spectral extraction using a Cube-Pilot of (a) frond 1 and (b) frond 2

21.4.3.3 Signi𝑓icant Bands for BSR Detection

The average spectra of the H and U seedlings from F1 and F2 were

calculated and plotted against reflectance to reveal visible and near-
infrared                                            spectrum patterns, as well as the differences 
between the H
and U. One spectral reflectance consisted of 125 bands. However, not all
of them contain information relevant to the research, whereby some
may contain content redundancy and irrelevant information. Therefore,
the bands were filtered based on the first 35 bands (30% of the total)

that provided high separation values between the H and U. These bands
were                                               then subjected to a result of a t-test 
statistical analysis, achieved
using SPSS statistical software (IBM SPSS Statistics 25, IBM, New York,
USA), where the means of H and U treatments were compared using
hypothesis testing to determine whether the treatments were different
from each other at these bands. The bands that obtained P ≤ 0.05 were
considered significant as they contained the most information

concerning differences between the H and U seedlings and were thus
used                                               as input to develop the machine learning 
classification models.


Figure 21.8 shows the result of reflectance analysis for the H and U
seedlings sampled from leaflets of F1 and F2 at week-20 after
inoculation. As shown in this figure, F1 and F2 yielded almost similar
reflectance patterns for both the H and U seedlings. The U seedlings
presented lower reflectance compared to H at the near-infrared (NIR)
range (750–950 nm), with maximum differences of 15.4% and 17.3%
for F1 and F2, respectively. The reflectance pattern generated by the U
seedlings was typical for diseased plants, with low reflectance in the
NIR wavelengths due to the destruction of xylem, which thus reduced
chlorophyll pigments and caused water deficiency.

Fig. 21.8  Average reflectance of uninoculated (H) and inoculated (U) oil palm
seedlings for frond 1(F1) and frond 2 (F2)

The reflection patterns of F1 and F2 were about the same for the H
and U, but H for F2 produced slightly higher reflectance than H for F1 in
the                                               NIR spectrum. This may indicate that the older 
leaves produced
higher reflectance than the younger leaves. This idea was supported by
Rapaport et al. (2014), who found an increases in NIR reflectance of
Cabernet Sauvignon in the second week when the fourth leaf (young) of
the control treatment moved to the eighth nodal position (old leaf


position), which concluded that age variability mainly influenced the
differences in reflectance spectra. Furthermore, the higher reflectance
of H in F2 presented higher differences between H and U of F2,
indicating higher degradation of the mesophyll cell wall, which was
similar to symptoms of G. boninense mentioned by Naidu et al., 2018
and Nisfariza et al. (Nisfariza et al., 2010), where old leaves showed
symptoms earlier than young leaves.

A new dataset, named F12 was then introduced to identify the band
based                                                 on the separation values of the H and U 
seedlings, which were

later confirmed using statistical test analysis. The F12 dataset took both
the reflectance values of F1 and F2. Table 21.1 summarises the 35
significant                                             bands obtained from F1, F2, and F12 at 
450–950 nm. Based
on the table, some bands were significant only in F1 and vice versa.

Considering only 35 bands instead of 125 bands could make future
hardware                                           design easier and more economical by avoiding 
analytical
problems with unwanted bands.

Table 21.1  Significant bands of frond 1 (F1) and frond 2 (F2) as identified by t-
test statistical analysis


Frond
number

F1

F2

F12

Total
significant
bands

35

35

35

Significant band (nm)

810, 814, 818, 822, 826, 830, 834, 838, 842, 846, 850, 854, 858,

866, 870, 874, 878, 882, 886, 890, 894, 898, 902, 906, 910, 914,

918, 922, 926, 930, 934, 938, 942, 946, 950

814, 818, 822, 826, 830, 834, 838, 842, 846, 850, 854, 858, 862,

866, 870, 874, 878, 882, 886, 890, 894, 898, 902, 906, 910, 914,

918, 922, 926, 930, 934, 938, 942, 946, 950

814, 818, 822, 826, 830, 834, 838, 842, 846, 850, 854, 858, 862,

866, 870, 874, 878, 882, 886, 890, 894, 898, 902, 906, 910, 914,

918, 922, 926, 930, 934, 938, 942, 946, 950

21.5 BSR Detection

21.5.1 BSR Detection Using SVM

Different support vector machine (SVM) kernel functions namely linear,
Gaussian RBF, and polynomial together with the significant bands of F1,


F2, and F12 were used to develop classification models to differentiate
between                                                  H and U seedlings (Azmi et al., 2020). 
After the classification
models were constructed, an optimisation process was carried out to
determine the optimal number of bands that could classify H and U
seedlings with a high accuracy as shown in Fig. 21.9. If the accuracy was
greater than 85%, the current number of significant bands was reduced
by 50%. Otherwise, the current number of significant bands was

increased by 50%. Separate classification models were developed using
F1, F2, and F12 to determine the suitable fronds to differentiate

between the seedlings. As a result, the number of bands was optimised
from                                                 35 bands to 18, 9, 14, or 5 bands. Figures 
21.10 and 21.11 show

the classification accuracy of SVM models developed using the
significant bands of F1, F2, and F12.

Fig. 21.9  Flowchart of band number optimisation process for reflectance
dataset


Fig. 21.10  Classification accuracies obtained using different numbers of
significant bands of F1

Fig. 21.11  Classification accuracies obtained using a different number of
significant bands of F2

The results of F1 as shown in Fig. 21.10 indicate that SVM models
developed using 35 and 18 bands had achieved 100% accuracy when
differentiating H and U seedlings. Overall, linear SVM, fine Gaussian
SVM, and medium Gaussian SVM were the good F1 classifiers that

scored 100% accuracy for 35 and 18; and 98.6% for 9 and 5 bands. This


demonstrated that these models were not sensitive to band reduction
because                                               they still provided high classification 
accuracy even when
using 9 and 5 bands with a finely detailed distinction between H and U.
On the other hand, the Quadratic SVM and Coarse Gaussian SVM were
very sensitive to the band reduction, whereby the use of 9 bands

reduced the accuracy by at least 3%. However, the usage of 5 bands
slightly                                          increased the classification accuracy, which 
indicated 5 bands
were better at classifying the H and U than 9 bands.

For F2, as shown in Fig. 21.11, fine Gaussian SVM obtained the
highest                                          accuracy of all bands with 92.6% accuracy when 
using 35
bands. All models achieved classification accuracies greater than 90%
for 35 bands, except the Cubic SVM model, which had a classification
accuracy of 89.1%. Classification accuracy when using 18 bands was
slightly lower than 35 bands. For example, although Fine Gaussian SVM
gained the highest classification accuracy for 18 bands, its performance
was lowered by 2% compared to when using 35 bands, making it the

classifier with the highest percentage of loss. In contrast, the Cubic SVM
was                                                the only classifier that maintained the same 
accuracy as 35 bands,
with an accuracy of 89.1%. However, this kernel performed less
accurately than others. The optimisation of bands from 18 to 9
significantly impacted the accuracy of the Cubic SVM, which dropped

from 89.1% to 46.8%. In contrast, the other models only experienced a
slight decrease in classification accuracy except for the linear SVM and
coarse Gaussian SVM, which maintained the same accuracy as the 18
bands.

For F12, as shown in Fig. 21.12, the highest classification accuracy
of                                             95.3% was achieved by linear SVM and fine Gaussian 
SVM when
using 18 bands. Meanwhile, the majority of the models achieved a

classification accuracy of more than 90%, with half of the models
achieving                                            94.9% accuracy when using 35, 18, and 14 
bands. Only the 9
bands of the coarse Gaussian SVM model outperformed the 14 bands
with 0.4% increases in classification accuracy. As for the Cubic SVM, the
classification accuracy achieved gradually decreased as the number of
bands decreased, initially 94.3% for 35 bands, 91.7% for 18 bands, then

reduced to 78.2% for 9 bands and increased to 88.9% for 14 bands.


Fig. 21.12  Classification accuracies obtained using a different number of
significant bands of F12

In a nutshell, the results demonstrated the NIR wavelengths had a
high                                            potential to distinguish healthy and asymptomatic 
G. boninense
seedlings with up to 100% accuracy. Furthermore, the number of bands
affected the classification accuracy of the SVM models as the models
developed using a high number of bands tended to yield high accuracy,
which ensured better prediction. In terms of frond number, the SVM
models developed with F1 produced more than 97% accuracy, whereas
models developed with F2 only produced a classification accuracy of
more than 90%. Meanwhile, the classification accuracy obtained by F12
outperformed the accuracy of F2 with an average difference of 4.8%,
which showed that the F12 data could improve the accuracies obtained
by F2, and thus confirmed that the combination of both fronds could be
used to detect the G. boninense infection in oil palm. This result was

consistent with Shafri et al. (Shafri et al., 2011), who used a maximum
likelihood classification technique with a combination of F1 and F2 to
determine the health status of oil palm seedlings and obtained a net
accuracy of 82%. However, our F12 method achieved more than 90%
accuracy even when fewer bands were used, e.g., 9 bands. Combining
F1 and F2 reflectance would simplify the process of BSR disease

detection using an aerial view approach since both fronds can be seen


clearly from the top view image, and no image pre-processing process
would                                                be needed to separate the fronds.

21.5.2 BSR Detection Using Various Types of ML

This section presents the capability of 23 ML classifiers to classify the H
and U seedlings using 35 significant bands (Azmi et al., 2021). These
bands were extracted from F12, as listed in Table 21.1. The

optimisation process was carried out to determine the optimal number
of                                              bands to improve the classification accuracy 
obtained by the ML
models. Exploration runs were applied where significant bands were

reduced and increased during the optimisation process as shown in Fig.

21.13. If there was improvement of the average accuracy of 23 models,
the                                             number of bands in the next classification process 
was reduced by
50%. However, if the accuracy was decreased, the number of bands was
increased by 50%. The optimisation process ended if the number of
bands became greater than 35 or there was no improvement in the

average accuracy for at least two neighbouring band reduction

processes. The performance time for each model for each significant
band was also recorded in order to assess the capability of the model.


Fig. 21.13  Flowchart of optimisation of number of bands for reflectance
dataset

Table 21.2 shows the results of the ML models with F-scores greater
than                                               95% in the 35, 18, 14, 11, and 9 bands with 
their performance

times. The 35, 18, and 14 bands each have four models that obtained an
F-score above 95%, whereas the 11 and 9 bands each have only one
model. A high F-score indicated that the model was less sensitive to
band optimisation, implying that high classification accuracy may be
achieved even when the model was developed with a small number of
datasets. Since several models achieved high F-score values, the best
model was determined based on the performance time. It was observed
that the type of algorithm and the number of bands used had an effect

on model performance. For example, the cubic SVM took the longest
time to develop models for 35, 18, and 14 bands as compared to the

other algorithms. In addition, the quadratic SVM provided the longest
performance time with 11.6320 s, even when using only 11 bands.

Overall, the best model for classifying the H and U seedlings was a
coarse Gaussian SVM with 9 bands because it had the shortest
performance time of 1.7124 s.

Table 21.2  Classification models that achieved more than 95% F-score with
their performance times

Performance time (s)
Number of significant bands

Classification model 35    18    14    11    9

Linear SVM        –     4.0248 –     –     –

Quadratic SVM      –     –     –     11.6320 –
Fine Gaussian SVM    6.1060 4.6642 3.8789 –     –

Medium Gaussian SVM 4.8147 –    3.7307 –     –
Coarse Gaussian SVM  –    –    –    –     1.7124
Medium kNN      5.7937 4.8772 3.9551 –     –

Cubic kNN        8.9532 6.1620 4.8110 –     –


21.5.3 BSR Detection Using SVM and a Small Number of
Bands

This section presents the capability of a small number of bands for BSR
detection Khairunniza-Bejo et al. (2021). The five most significant
bands extracted from F12 as shown in Table 21.3 were used as datasets.

The number of bands was later reduced to 4, 3, 2, and 1. The
performance of the classification models was assessed using a

confusion matrix where accuracy, sensitivity, and specificity were

calculated. Furthermore, the performance of the classification models
was                                             further evaluated using the receiver operating 
characteristic (ROC)
and the area under the ROC curve (AUC). A ROC curve illustrates the
performance of a classification overall categorisation thresholds.

Meanwhile, the AUC quantifies the area beneath the ROC curve A model
with 100% correct predictions would have an AUC of 1.0, while one
with 100% incorrect predictions would have an AUC of 0.0. An AUC less
than 0.5 cannot discriminate between positive and negative class
values.

Table 21.3 The five most significant bands of F12

Total significant bands Significant band (nm)

5               926, 930, 934, 938, 942

4               930, 934, 938, 942

3               930, 934, 938

2               934, 938

1               934

Figure 21.14 shows the performance of each SVM model for AUC in
each reduction number of wavelengths. Based on this figure, the SVM
models performed exceptionally well in classification, with an average
AUC of 0.91 to 0.96, except for the cubic SVM, which had the lowest
average AUC value of 0.42. This means that there is a high chance that
most of the models were able to distinguish between the H and U
seedlings. Since the models performed well in terms of classification,

the accuracy, sensitivity, and specificity of each model were assessed


using a coefficient of variance (CV) to determine the data dispersion. In
general, almost all models yielded a good classification accuracy of over
90% in average accuracy, sensitivity, and specificity.

Fig. 21.14  Performance of each SVM model for AUC in each reduction in the
number of wavelengths

Overall, as summarised in Table 21.4, the linear SVM model had the
lowest average CV for accuracy and specificity, as well as the second-

lowest value for sensitivity. The lowest CV score of the linear SVM
indicated                                              that the reduced number of wavelengths did 
not affect the
consistency of the model to detect a G. boninense infection. The linear
SVM models maintained excellent accuracy (94.80%), sensitivity

(97.60%), specificity (92.50%), and AUC (0.95), even when the number
of wavelengths was optimised to 1. As a result, the best detection model
was found to be the linear SVM with datasets from 934 nm. The model
could                                          distinguish between healthy and infected seedlings 
excellently
and improved the classification accuracy obtained by Azmi et al. (Azmi
et al., 2020) by 1.80%.

Table 21.4  Mean (x) and coefficients of variations (CV) for accuracy,
sensitivity, and specificity of each SVM model


SVM Model

Accuracy

Sensitivity

Specificity


Linear
Quadratic
Cubic

Fine Gaussian
Medium Gaussian
Coarse gaussian

Mean, x (%)

94.58

85.58

47.28

94.58

94.43

94.55

CV (%)

0.16

7.34

30.32

0.26

0.16

0.35

Mean, x

(%)

91.98

88.18

44.55

91.83

90.65

90.68

CV (%)

0.38

8.20

49.06

0.60

0.45

0.57

Mean, x

(%)

97.00

83.50

49.50

97.00

97.50

97.75

CV (%)

0.00

15.48

21.16

0.00

0.59

0.51

21.6 Conclusion

This chapter presents the capability of hyperspectral imaging to detect
an                                               early stage of G. boninense infection in oil palm 
seedlings using
machine learning techniques. In this research, the seedlings showed no
visible symptoms after 20 weeks of inoculation, which indicated an

early stage of G. boninense infection. However, the PCR test conducted
after                                                4 weeks of inoculation confirmed the infection 
in the seedlings.
Figure 21.15 summarises the findings of this research. The
hyperspectral reflectance showed significant differences where the U
seedlings yielded low reflection in the NIR spectrum as compared to

the H seedlings. The NIR spectrum is superior in detecting disease for
asymptomatic infection due to its capability to obtain information of

the interior tissues, compared with VIS which can only obtain exterior
information that is invisible at the early stage of infection. The result
also demonstrated that the F12 could be used for early detection of G.
boninense infection in oil palm seedlings since F12 produced slightly

lower classification accuracy than F1 but higher than F2. Therefore, it is
acceptable for not separating between F1 and F2 during the pre-

processing stage. This information is useful because this approach can
be expanded to the more practical application using an unmanned
aerial vehicle (UAV) where the identification of fronds could be

challenging in aerial images. Indeed, SVM was identified as the best ML
classifier in detecting BSR using various types of datasets extracted

from NIR. Furthermore, a large number of bands (35 and 18) could


achieve 100% accuracy, while a small number of bands achieved a
slightly                                              lower level of classification accuracy. 
Considering the economic
aspect for hardware implementation in the future, a linear SVM which
was developed using a single-band reflectance at 934 nm was identified
as the best model for detection with a high score of accuracy (94.8%),
sensitivity (97.6%), specificity (92.5%), and the area under the receiver
operating characteristic curve (AUC) (0.95). The findings of this

research have the potential to significantly benefit the oil palm industry
by                                          successfully detecting asymptomatic G. boninense 
infection, allowing
for adequate treatment time and preventing disease spread. As a result,
improved plantation management could result in higher yields,

increased sustainability of palm oil production, and protection of the
environment and communities in palm oil-producing regions. For

future work, the method developed in this research could be
implemented                                                in an open environment or a real nursery 
to confirm its
reliability for field application.

Fig. 21.15  Summary of the findings for the research of the early detection of G.
boninense infection in the oil palm seedlings using hyperspectral data and


machine learning techniques

Acknowledgement

The authors would like to thank the Ministry of Higher Education
Malaysia, for providing financial support under the Fundamental
Research Grants Scheme (FRGS) (Project number: LRGS-

NANOMITE/5526305). This research is also part of the SEARCA
Regional Professorial Chair Grant AY2022-2023.

References

Abdulridha, J., Ampatzidis, Y., Roberts, P., & Kakarla, S. C. (2020). Detecting
powdery mildew disease in squash at different stages using UAV–based
hyperspectral imaging and artificial intelligence. Biosystems Engineering, 197,
135–148. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.biosystemseng.2020.07.001

[Crossref]

Ahmadi, P., Muharam, F. M., Ahmad, K., Mansor, S., & Abu Seman, I. (2017).
Early detection of Ganoderma basal stem rotof oil palms using artificial neural
network spectral analysis. Plant Disease, 101, 1009–1016. https://doi.org/10.
1094/PDIS-12-16-1699-RE

[Crossref][PubMed]

Arango, M., Martı́nez, G., & Torres, G. (2016). Advances in the interpretation of
tomographic images as an early detection method of oil palm affected by basal
stem rotin Colombia. Plant Disease, 100, 1559–1563. https://doi.org/10.1094/
PDIS-12-15-1473-RE

[Crossref][PubMed]

Ariffin, D., & Seman, I. A. (1993) A selective medium for the isolation of

Ganoderma from diseased tissues. In: PORIM international palm oil conference
progress prospects challenges towards the 21st century, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia,
9–14 September 1993.

Azmi, A. N. N., Bejo, S. K., Jahari, M., Muharam, F. M., Yule, I., & Husin, N. A.
(2020). Early detection of Ganoderma boninense in oil palm seedlings using
support vector machines. Remote Sensing, 12, 3920. https://doi.org/10.3390/
rs12233920

[Crossref]


Azmi, A. N. N., Khairunniza-Bejo, S., Jahari, M., Muharram, F. M., & Yule, I.
(2021). Identification of a suitable machine learning model for detection of
asymptomatic Ganoderma boninense infection in oil palm seedlings using
hyperspectral data. Applied Sciences, 11, 11798. https://doi.org/10.3390/
app112411798

[Crossref]

Behmann, J., Steinrü cken, J., & Plü mer, L. (2014). Detection of early plant stress
responses in hyperspectral images. ISPRS Journal of Photogrammetry and
Remote Sensing, 93, 98–111. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.isprsjprs.2014.03.016
[Crossref]

Bejo, S., Abdol-Lajis, G., Abd-Aziz, S., Abu-Seman, I., & Ahamed, T. (2018).
Detecting basal stem rot (BSR) disease at oil palm tree using thermal imaging
technique. In: 14th International conference on precision agriculture, Montreal
QC, Canada, 24–27 June 2018.

Breton, F., Miranti, R., Lubis, Z., Hayun, Z., Setiawati, U., Flori, A., & De
Franqueville, H. (2009). Implementation of an early artificial inoculation test to
screen   oil palm progenies for their level of resistance and hypothesis on
natural infection: Ganoderma disease of the oil palm. In 16th International oil

palm conference and expopalma challenges in sustainable oil palm development,
Cartagena de Indias, Columbia, 22–25 September 2009.

Chung, G. F. (2012). Effect of pests and diseases on oil palm yield. In O. M. Lai,

C. P. Tan, & C. C. Akoh (Eds.), Palm oil (pp. 163–210). AOCS Press. https://doi.
org/10.1016/B978-0-9818936-9-3.50009-5

[Crossref]

Dale, L. M., Thewis, A., Boudry, C., Rotar, I., Dardenne, P., Baeten, V., & Pierna, J.

A. F. (2013). Hyperspectral imaging applications in agriculture and agro–food
product quality and safety control: A review. Applied Spectroscopy Reviews, 48,
142–159. https://doi.org/10.1080/05704928.2012.705800

[Crossref]

Ezenne, G. I., Jupp, L., Mantel, S. K., & Tanner, J. L. (2019). Current and potential
capabilities of UAS for crop water productivity in precision agriculture.

Agricultural Water Management, 218, 158–164. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
agwat.2019.03.034

[Crossref]


Feng, Y., Peng, Y., Cui, N., Gong, D., & Zhang, K. (2017). Modeling reference
evapotranspiration using extreme learning machine and generalized
regression neural network only with temperature data. Computers and

Electronics in Agriculture, 136, 71–78. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.2017.

01.027

[Crossref]

Ferentinos, K. P. (2018). Deep learning models for plant disease detection and
diagnosis. Computers and Electronics in Agriculture, 145, 311–318. https://doi.
org/10.1016/j.compag.2018.01.009

[Crossref]

Goetz, A. F., Vane, G., Solomon, J. E., & Rock, B. N. (1985). Imaging spectrometry
for earth remote sensing. Science, 228, 1147–1153. https://doi.org/10.1126/
science.228.4704.1147

[Crossref][PubMed]

Govender, N. T., Mahmood, M., Seman, I. A., & Wong, M. Y. (2017). The
phenylpropanoid pathway and lignin in defense against Ganoderma boninense
colonized  root tissues in oil palm (Elaeis guineensis Jacq). Frontiers in Plant
Science,   8, 1395. https://doi.org/10.3389/fpls.2017.01395

[Crossref][PubMed][PubMedCentral]

Grinblat, G. L., Uzal, L. C., Larese, M. G., & Granitto, P. M. (2016). Deep learning
for plant identification using vein morphological patterns. Computers and

Electronics in Agriculture, 127, 418–424. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.

2016.07.003

[Crossref]

Hu, H., Pan, L., Sun, K., Tu, S., Sun, Y., Wei, Y., & Tu, K. (2017). Differentiation of
deciduous–calyx and persistent–calyx pears using hyperspectral reflectance
imaging and multivariate analysis. Computers and Electronics in Agriculture, 137,
150–156. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.2017.04.002

[Crossref]

Huang, W., Lamb, D. W., Niu, Z., Zhang, Y., Liu, L., & Wang, J. (2007).
Identification of yellow rust in wheat using in–situ spectral reflectance
measurements and airborne hyperspectral imaging. Precision Agriculture, 8,
187–197. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11119-007-9038-9

[Crossref]


Husin, N. A., Khairunniza–Bejo, S., Abdullah, A. F., Kassim, M. S. M., & Ahmad, D.
(2020a). Study of the oil palm crown characteristics associated with basal stem
rot (BSR) disease using stratification method of point cloud data. Computers

and Electronics in Agriculture, 178, 105810. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.
2020.105810

[Crossref]

Husin, N. A., Khairunniza-Bejo, S., Abdullah, A. F., Kassim, M. S., Ahmad, D., &
Azmi, A. N. (2020b). Application of ground-based LiDAR for analysing oil palm
canopy properties on the occurrence of basal stem rot (BSR) disease. Scientific
Reports, 10, 1–16. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-020-62275-6

[Crossref]

Husin, N. A., Khairunniza-Bejo, S., Abdullah, A. F., Kassim, M. S., Ahmad, D., &
Aziz, M. H. (2020c). Classification of basal stem rot disease in oil palm
plantations using terrestrial laser scanning data and machine learning.

Agronomy, 10, 1624. https://doi.org/10.3390/agronomy10111624
[Crossref]

Idris, A. S. (2009). Basal stem rotin Malaysia-Biology economic importance
epidemiology detection and control. In International workshop on awareness
detection  and control of oil palm devastating diseases, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, 1
January 2009.

Idris, A. S., & Rafidah, R. (2008). Enzyme linked immunosorbent assay-
polyclonal antibody (ELISA-PAb). MPOB Information Series, 430, 1–4.

Izzuddin, M. A., Idris, A. S., Wahid, O., Nishfariza, M. N., & Shafri, H. Z. M. (2013).
Field spectroscopy for detection of Ganoderma disease in oil palm. MPOB
Information Series, 532, 630.

Kandan, A., Bhaskaran, R., & Samiyappan, R. (2010). Ganoderma: A basal stem
rotdisease of coconut palm in South Asia and Asia pacific regions.

Phytopathology and Plant Protection, 43, 1445–1449. https://doi.org/10.1080/
03235400802536527

[Crossref]

Khairunniza-Bejo, S., Shahibullah, M. S., Azmi, A. N. N., & Jahari, M. (2021).
Non–destructive detection of asymptomatic Ganoderma boninense infection of
oil palm seedlings using NIR–hyperspectral data and support vector machine.
Applied Sciences, 11, 10878. https://doi.org/10.3390/app112210878


[Crossref]

Khaled, A. Y., Aziz, S. A., Bejo, S. K., Nawi, N. M., & Seman, I. A. (2018a). Spectral
features selection and classification of oil palm leaves infected by basal stem
rot (BSR) disease using dielectric spectroscopy. Computers and Electronics in
Agriculture, 144, 297–309. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.2017.11.012
[Crossref]

Khaled, A. Y., Aziz, S. A., Bejo, S. K., Nawi, N. M., Seman, I. A., & Izzuddin, M. A.
(2018b). Development of classification models for basal stem rot (BSR)
disease in oil palm using dielectric spectroscopy. Industrial Crops and Products,
124, 99–107. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.indcrop.2018.07.050

[Crossref]

Kotlar, A. M., Iversen, B. V., & de Jong van Lier, Q. (2019). Evaluation of
parametric and nonparametric machine learning techniques for prediction of
saturated and near saturated hydraulic conductivity. Vadose Zone Journal, 18, 1–

13. https://doi.org/10.2136/vzj2018.07.0141
[Crossref]

Kresnawaty, I., Mulyatni, A. S., Eris, D. D., Prakoso, H. T., Triyana, K., &
Widiastuti, H. (2020). Electronic nose for early detection of basal stem
rotcaused by Ganoderma in oil palm. In IOP conference series: Earth and
environmental science (p. 012029). IOP Publishing.

Lelong, C. C., Roger, J. M., Brégand, S., Dubertret, F., Lanore, M., Sitorus, N. A., &
Caliman, J. P. (2010). Evaluation of oil-palm fungal disease infestation with
canopy hyperspectral reflectance data. Sensors, 10, 734–747. https://doi.org/
10.3390/s100100734

[Crossref][PubMed][PubMedCentral]

Li, B., Xu, X., Zhang, L., Han, J., Bian, C., Li, G., & Jin, L. (2020). Above–ground
biomass estimation and yield prediction in potato by using UAV–based RGB
and hyperspectral imaging. ISPRS Journal of Photogrammetry and Remote
Sensing, 162, 161–172. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.isprsjprs.2020.02.013
[Crossref]

Liaghat, S., Mansor, S., Ehsani, R., Shafri, H. Z. M., Meon, S., & Sankaran, S.
(2014). Mid-infrared spectroscopy for early detection of basal stem rotdisease
in  oil palm. Computers and Electronics in Agriculture, 101, 48–54. https://doi.
org/10.1016/j.compag.2013.12.012

[Crossref]


Madihah, A. Z., Idris, A. S., & Rafidah, A. R. (2014). Polyclonal antibodies of

Ganoderma boninense isolated from Malaysian oil palm for detection of basal
stem rotdisease. African Journal of Biotechnology, 13, 3455–3463. https://doi.
org/10.5897/AJB2013.13604

[Crossref]

Markom, M. A., Shakaff, A. M., Adom, A. H., Ahmad, M. N., Hidayat, W., Abdullah,

A. H., & Fikri, N. A. (2009). Intelligent electronic nose system for basal stem
rotdisease detection. Computers and Electronics in Agriculture, 66, 140–146.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.2009.01.006

[Crossref]

Maryam, K., Khairunniza-Bejo, S., & Biswajeet, P. (2018). Geospatial
technologies for detection and monitoring of Ganoderma basal stem rot
infection      in oil palm plantations: A review on sensors and techniques. Geocarto
International, 33, 260–276. https://doi.org/10.1080/10106049.2016.1243410
[Crossref]

Matthews, S. G., Miller, A. L., PlÖ tz, T., & Kyriazakis, I. (2017). Automated
tracking to measure behavioural changes in pigs for health and welfare
monitoring. Scientific Reports, 7, 1–12. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-017-

17451-6

[Crossref]

Mazliham, M. S., Pierre, L., & Idris, A. S. (2008). Towards automatic recognition
and grading of Ganoderma infection pattern using fuzzy systems. Engineering,
Computing & Technology, 19, 1–6. https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.1061936
[Crossref]

Mitchell, T. M. (1997). Does machine learning really work? AI Magazine, 18, 11–

20. https://doi.org/10.1609/aimag.v18i3.1303
[Crossref]

Mohd Hilmi Tan, M. I. S., Jamlos, M. F., Omar, A. F., Dzaharudin, F.,
Chalermwisutkul, S., & Akkaraekthalin, P. (2021). Ganoderma boninense disease
detection   by near-infrared spectroscopy classification: A review. Sensors, 21,
3052. https://doi.org/10.3390/s21093052

[Crossref][PubMed][PubMedCentral]

Mohd Johari, S. N. A., Khairunniza-Bejo, S., Abdol Lajis, G., Jeffery Daim, L. D.,
Neoh, B. K., Yap, Y. C., & Ithnin, N. (2021). Detecting BSR infected oil palm


seedling using thermal imaging technique. Basrah Journal of Agricultural
Sciences, 34, 73–80. https://doi.org/10.37077/25200860.2021.34.sp1.8
[Crossref]

Morales, I. R., Cebrián, D. R., Blanco, E. F., & Sierra, A. P. (2016). Early warning in
egg production curves from commercial hens: An SVM approach. Computers

and Electronics in Agriculture, 121, 169–179. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
compag.2015.12.009

[Crossref]

Morellos, A., Pantazi, X. E., Moshou, D., Alexandridis, T., Whetton, R., Tziotzios,
G., & Mouazen, A. M. (2016). Machine learning based prediction of soil total
nitrogen organic carbon and moisture content by using VIS–NIR spectroscopy.
Biosystems Engineering, 152, 104–116. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
biosystemseng.2016.04.018

[Crossref]

Naher, L., Intan, S., Mokhtar, B., & Sidek, N. (2015). Trichoderma harzianum
T32 growth and antagonistic performance against Ganoderma boninense on
different culture media. In 3rd international conference on biological chemical &
environmental science (BCES-2015), Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, 21–22 September
2015.

Naidu, Y., Siddiqui, Y., Rafii, M. Y., Saud, H. M., & Idris, A. S. (2018). Inoculation
of oil palm seedlings in Malaysia with white–rot hymenomycetes: Assessment
of pathogenicity and vegetative growth. Crop Protection, 110, 146–154. https://
doi.org/10.1016/j.cropro.2018.02.018

[Crossref]

Nisfariza, M. N., Idris, A. S., Shafri, Z. H., Steven, M., & Boyd, D. (2010).
Hyperspectral derivative band ratios of oil palm stress associated with

Ganoderma basal stem rot disease. In: MRSS 6th international remote sensing &
GIS conference and exhibition 2010, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, 28–29 April 2010.

Nur, A. H., Khairunniza-Bejo, S., Abdullah, A. F., Kassim, M. S., & Ahmad, D.
(2021). Multi-temporal analysis of terrestrial laser scanning data to detect
basal stem rotin oil palm trees. Precision Agriculture, 23, 1–26. https://doi.org/
10.1007/s11119-021-09829-4

[Crossref]

Oettli, P., Behera, S. K., & Yamagata, T. (2018). Climate based predictability of oil
palm tree yield in Malaysia. Scientific Reports, 8, 1–13. https://doi.org/10.


1038/s41598-018-20298-0

[Crossref]

Pantazi, X. E., Tamouridou, A. A., Alexandridis, T. K., Lagopodi, A. L., Kontouris,
G., & Moshou, D. (2017). Detection of Silybum marianum infection with
Microbotryum silybum using VNIR field spectroscopy. Computers and

Electronics in Agriculture, 137, 130–137. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.

2017.03.017

[Crossref]

Parker, I. M., & Gilbert, G. S. (2007). When there is no escape: The effects of
natural enemies on native invasive and non-invasive plants. Ecology, 88, 1210–
1224. https://doi.org/10.1890/06-1377

[Crossref][PubMed]

Rakib, M. R. M., Borhan, A. H., & Jawahir, A. N. (2019). The relationship between
SPAD chlorophyll and disease severity index in Ganoderma-infected oil palm
seedlings. Journal of the Bangladesh Agricultural University, 17, 355–358.
[Crossref]

Rapaport, T., Hochberg, U., Rachmilevitch, S., & Karnieli, A. (2014). The effect of
differential growth rates across plants on spectral predictions of physiological
parameters. PLoS One, 9, e88930. https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.

0088930

[Crossref][PubMed][PubMedCentral]

Santoso, H., Gunawan, T., Jatmiko, R. H., Darmosarkoro, W., & Minasny, B.
(2011). Mapping and identifying basal stem rotdisease in oil palms in North
Sumatra with QuickBird imagery. Precision Agriculture, 12, 233–248. https://
doi.org/10.1007/s11119-010-9172-7

[Crossref]

Shafri, H. Z., Anuar, M. I., Seman, I. A., & Noor, N. M. (2011). Spectral
discrimination of healthy and Ganoderma–infected oil palms from
hyperspectral  data. International Journal of Remote Sensing, 32, 7111–7129.
https://doi.org/10.1080/01431161.2010.519003

[Crossref]

Su, Y. X., Xu, H., & Yan, L. J. (2017). Support vector machine–based open crop
model (SBOCM): Case of rice production in China. Saudi Journal of Biological
Sciences, 24, 537–547. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.sjbs.2017.01.024
[Crossref][PubMed][PubMedCentral]


Torres, I., Sánchez, M. T., Cho, B. K., Garrido-Varo, A., & Pérez-Marı́n, D. (2019).
Setting up a methodology to distinguish between green oranges and leaves
using hyperspectral imaging. Computers and Electronics in Agriculture, 167,
105070. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.2019.105070

[Crossref]

Turnbull, N., de Franqueville, H., Breton, F., Jeyen, S., Syahoutra, I., Cochard, B.,
& Durand-Gassellin, T (2014). Breeding methodology to select oil palm
planting material partially resistant to Ganoderma boninense. In 5th quadrennial
international oil palm conference Bali, Nusa Dua Convention Center, Indonesia,
17–19  June 2014.

Wulandari, Y. R. E., Felicia, F., Arifin, A. R., & Suwanto, A. (2018). EgMLP1 gene
expression in oil palm Ramet infected with Ganoderma boninense. International
Journal of Oil Palm, 1, 71–78.

Zhang, T., Fan, S., Xiang, Y., Zhang, S., Wang, J., & Sun, Q. (2020). Non–
destructive analysis of germination percentage germination energy and simple
vigour index on wheat seeds during storage by VIS/NIR and SWIR
hyperspectral imaging. Spectrochimica Acta Part A: Molecular and Biomolecular
Spectroscopy, 239, 118488. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.saa.2020.118488
[Crossref][PubMed]


© The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd. 2023

T. Ahamed (ed.), IoT and AI in Agriculture

https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-19-8113-5_22

22. Strategic Short Note: Development of an
Automated Speed Sprayer for Apple
Orchards in Japan

Ryozo Noguchi¹

(1) Graduate School of Agriculture, Kyoto University, Kyoto, Japan

Ryozo Noguchi

Email: noguchi.ryozo.8j@kyoto-u.ac.jp

Abstract

Pesticide application is essential for stable fruit production in Japan.
Pesticide                                          application in orchards is often performed by 
Speed Sprayers
(SS), which is equipped with a large column tank and spraying system
from underneath the canopy. However, there is risk in long time

operation for the operator and as well as the environment due to a

large amount of spraying of pesticides. Therefore, automated driving of
SS and automated pesticide application technology in smart agriculture
are important in addressing the decrease in the number of farm

workers and freeing them from pesticide exposure due to pesticide
spraying                                             using advanced sensors. Thus, it was aimed to 
improve the
stability of straight driving control and turning control by using not
only GNSS but also optical markers, image processing using camera
images, and LiDAR. In this chapter, the development of an automated
speed sprayer for apple orchards in Japan was discussed with recent
advances in sensors and its perceptions. Therefore, the digitalization
and feedback of the spraying condition provides an opportunity to

enable a shift to environment- and ecosystem-friendly agriculture for
orchard-based systems.


Keywords ArUco marker – Autonomous control – GNSS – LiDAR – RGB
camera                                                  – Speed sprayer

22.1 Introduction

22.1.1 Apple Production and Pesticide Spraying

The current production of apples in Japan is approximately 750,000
tons. There is a high demand for Japanese apples overseas, and

approximately 50,000 tons are exported to Taiwan and other countries.
Aomori Prefecture produces the most apples of any prefecture in Japan,
with an area of approximately 20,000 ha and an annual production

volume of approximately 450,000 tons. In Aomori Prefecture, a shift is
underway from conventional regular tree cultivation to dwarf

cultivation and high-density dwarf cultivation to improve the efficiency
and                                          productivity of apple farm operations (Fig. 22.1).

Fig. 22.1  Apple cultivation methods (from left to right: normal tree cultivation,
cropped tree cultivation, and high-density cropping, with target yields of
approximately 40 t/ha, 50 t/ha, and 60 t/ha at maturity, respectively) (Apple
Research Institute)

Apple cultivation requires a large amount of agricultural work

throughout the year, including fertilization, pollination, flower, and fruit
picking, pest control, bagging, weed management, weeding, limbing,
pole setting, bagging, reflective sheeting, leaf plucking, fruit turning,
harvesting, fruit selection, pruning, and rough skin scraping. Pest

control by spraying agricultural chemicals, which takes place from April
to August, needs to be done about 12 times a year. In addition, in recent
years, Aomori Prefecture has seen many outbreaks of black star


disease, and pesticide application time has increased due to the need
for                                            careful pest control.

In many cases, pesticide application by using speed sprayers (SS)
without                                                 a cabin requires the wearing of pest 
control clothing, which
increases both temperature and humidity, making SS operators
significantly uncomfortable. In addition, there are reports of a shortage
of SS operators due to the aging of the workforce, pesticide exposure of
operators, hearing impairment due to noise, fatigue due to vibration,
and fatal accidents due to collisions with tree branches and fruit tree

trellis wires. Furthermore, apple cultivation requires good drainage and
sufficient solar radiation to improve sweetness, and many sloping fields
located in mountainous areas cause the accident in turning over of SS

(Fig. 22.2). In addition, SS is generally operated by men. As a result,

there are many cases of family farmers abandoning their apple orchard
operations                                                due to SS accidents; then there are high 
expectations from

the field for automated pesticide spraying technology.

Fig. 22.2  Pesticide application in a sloping field (Soma Village, Aomori
Prefecture)

22.2 Past Efforts to Automate SS and Development
Goals


In the past, an automated SS had achieved the same level of chemical
application                                            efficiency as like manned SS by applying 
electric current to
an induction cable placed underground and using a sensor to detect the
magnetic field generated. However, this technology has not been widely
used due to the occurrence of cable breakage caused by rodents and the
high cost of installation. In addition, markers laid on orchard surfaces
are easily destroyed or lost due to weed control or plowing.

On the other hand, the spread of high-precision satellite positioning
enabled                                          inexpensive and highly accurate automation in 
outdoor

vehicles, contributing greatly to the automation of agricultural
machinery.                                         However, it has been suggested that in orchards, 
stable use
of high-precision satellite positioning is difficult due to the influence of
fruit tree branches and leaves. Therefore, we aimed to improve the
stability of straight driving control and turning control by using not

only GNSS but also optical markers, image processing using camera
images, and LiDAR.

Since orchards, where conventional SS are used, have a variety of

fruit tree species and cultivation methods, the orchard environment has
a                                           significant impact on the development policy of 
automated SS. In this
project, with the cooperation of the Aomori Apple Research Institute,
we focused on the automation of pesticide application in the cultivation
of dwarf trees. With an eye toward practical application, the SSA-

V1002CDX (Maruyama Co., Ltd.) was used as the first prototype, and
the                                      SSA-V602C-DX (Maruyama Co., Ltd.) as the second prototype, 
to

perform automated driving and spraying using SS vehicles currently in
use.

22.3 GNSS Application

A multi-band high-precision satellite positioning device capable of
transmitting reference station signals via specified low-power

communications was fabricated. In addition, we have confirmed that
the                                      signal-receiving performance is good during the period 
when the
fruit tree branches and leaves are at their peak growth stage in the
apple orchard at the Apple Research Institute. Furthermore, we

confirmed that the receiving performance was satisfactory on all


driving paths even in the apple orchard that had been flattened by

cutting down the slope. Therefore, it was confirmed that self-position
estimation by GNSS alone was sufficient for driving accuracy.

Furthermore, it was found that the system can precisely reproduce the
driving route, driving speed, timing of pesticide spraying, etc., by

learning teacher signals in advance at the Apple Research Institute by
workers who specialize in SS, and it is clear that driving with sufficient
accuracy for practical use is possible (Fig. 22.3).

Fig. 22.3  Speed sprayer (SSA-V602C-DX (Maruyama Co., Ltd.)) tested in the
experiment, and scenes of automatic driving, automatic spraying, and pillow
turning by self-position estimation using GNSS in a dwarf apple orchard
(Aomori Apple Research Institute)

22.4 ArUco Markers and GNSS Application

An RTK-GNSS base station was installed in the T-PIRC farm at the

University of Tsukuba, and ArUco markers were installed in a joint pear
orchard, which was close to the row of fruit trees in the apple orchard
for autonomous driving experiments (Fig. 22.4).


Fig. 22.4  Speed sprayer (SSA-V1002CDX (Maruyama Co., Ltd.)) used in the
experiment and automatic water application in a jointed pear orchard (T-PIRC
farm, University of Tsukuba)

First, the potential use of ArUco markers for self-location estimation
in                                          orchards was examined. The results showed that the 
recognition rate
of ArUco markers by the RGB camera was 79% at 15 m, 92% at 10 m,
and 99% at 5 m from the mounting position. In addition, ArUco

markers were recognized with an accuracy of more than 90%

regardless of forward or backlight. However, the recognition rate

dropped to less than 25% in backlit conditions where sunlight directly
hit                                                the lens and caused white-out.

Next, automatic SS driving was examined using GNSS signals. When
single-band high-precision satellite positioning was available, the GNSS,
ArUco marker, and azimuth angle by azimuth sensor were used, and
when the ArUco marker indicating the start of turning was recognized,
the SS shifted to turning. As a result, the average difference in distance

from the ideal path was 0.14 m in the driving experiment in a joint-

tailored pear orchard, confirming sufficient driving accuracy (Fig. 22.5).


Fig. 22.5 Traveling paths and trajectories in a joint-tailored pear orchard

22.5 LiDAR Application

LiDAR is a sensor that measures the position of obstacles by the
reflection                                            time of an infrared laser. Among them, 2D 
LiDAR has the

advantages of low disturbance in outdoor environments, relatively low
cost, and low computational complexity. In this study, a two-
dimensional LiDAR (Hokuyo Electric, UST-10LX) was installed in front
of an SS to investigate automatic driving by generating a path using the
potential method (Khatib, 1990). The use of the potential method in

this study was to determine the path based on the position information
of                                          obstacles (fruit trees), so the potential method could 
not be used
during turning. Therefore, in addition to the algorithm of the potential
method for straight driving, a turning algorithm was added to move to
the next orchard driving path and return to straight driving. As a result,
the mean square deviation was 0.21 m and the maximum error was

0.36 m on the orchard test course. Since the vehicle width of the SS
used                                              in this study was 1.45 m and the orchard targeted 
was
approximately 3.20 m wide, the driving path had a margin of

approximately 0.85 m on either side of the vehicle, which was sufficient
for                                         adequate accuracy (Fig. 22.6).


Fig. 22.6 Driving paths and trajectories on the orchard test course

22.6 Future Tasks

The development of automated SS in this task to date has shown a
sufficient potential to achieve automated driving and spraying in

orchard fields. However, in the use of SS in orchard fields, if the SS in
operation needs to be replenished with chemicals, it will be necessary
to travel from the location where the pesticide application is

interrupted to the location where the replenishment of chemicals was
interrupted. In addition, to reduce the amount of extra pesticide
application as much as possible, it is necessary to add functions such as
collection and storage of pesticide application operation data and real-
time remote data transmission. In addition, there are issues to be
addressed for practical application, such as how to use information

from LiDAR to determine the level of branches and leaves that are safe
for                                            collision with the SS when they are extending into 
the driving path
in the orchard. Furthermore, it is still being confirmed whether LiDAR
can safely stop an automated SS while the SS is confronted by humans
or other sudden obstacles.

Acknowledgments

This research is being conducted by the “Consortium of the

Development of Smart Technology for Orchard Pesticide Spraying”
under                                             the project “Development of an Automated Speed 
Sprayer for
Smart Orchards (FY2021-FY2023)” supported by the Agricultural

Machinery Technology Cluster Project of the Institute of Agricultural


Machinery, National Agriculture and Food Research Organization
(IAM/NARO). The Consortium is a joint research project by

(representative organization) Kyoto University, University of Tsukuba,
Maruyama Co., Ltd., i-Mobility Platform Inc., IAM/NARO, Apple

Research Institute at Aomori Prefectural Industrial Technology
Development Organization.

Reference

Khatib, O. (1990). Real-time obstacle avoidance for manipulators and mobile
robots, autonomous robot vehicles (pp. 396–404). Springer.


© The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd. 2023

T. Ahamed (ed.), IoT and AI in Agriculture

https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-19-8113-5_23

23. The Spectrum of Autonomous Machinery
Development to Increase Agricultural

Productivity for Achieving Society 5.0 in
Japan

Tofael Ahamed¹

(1) Faculty of Life and Environmental Sciences, University of Tsukuba,
Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan

Tofael Ahamed

Email: tofael.ahamed.gp@u.tsukuba.ac.jp

Abstract

Automation levels have different definitions across the Japanese,
European,                                               and US standards. Japanese automation 
starts with Level 0,
which is the guidance referring to the full control of humans over the
machine. Level 1 is called function-specific automation and refers to

guidance; it is the first involvement of a vehicle controlling any function
such                                                 as acceleration, steering, and braking through 
the system. Level 2
refers to the optimization and coordination with multiple functions

controlled by the vehicle at the same time through an adaptive cruise
control system and lane-keeping assistance (combine function

automation). Level 3 refers to the most functions controlled by the
vehicle and human assistance if needed. This level is referred to as

assisted autonomy. One of the common examples is operator-assisted
autonomy                                               with one manned tractor backing up an 
unmanned tractor.
Advancing from supervised autonomy to full autonomy is referred to as
Level 4, which is a significant progress for Japanese companies. The


safety regulations from the Japanese government need to meet at the
same time to adopt full autonomy in Japanese agriculture.

Keywords Automation level – Function-specific automation – Combine
function                                           automation – Operator- assisted autonomy – 
Unmanned

tractor – Full autonomy

23.1 Introduction

The agricultural field in Japan is facing a critical problem when it needs
to                                             consider aging farmers whose average age is 67 
without replacement
by successors (Jöhr, 2012; The Japan Times, 2018). Despite standing in
the top ten largest agricultural businesses, with billions of dollars

coming from exporting numerous products such as traditional cuisines,

Japan’s agricultural labor sector shrank 22% in the last 10 years

(Goedde et al., 2016). More specifically, the number of full-time farmers
was                                                 1.7 million in 2014, declining from 2.2 million 
a decade earlier. This
explains the rise in abandoned farmland to 420,000 hectares, which is

twice that in the previous 20 years (Japan Today, 2016). The rapid labor
decline phenomenon has also led to the doubling in workload for each
farmer regardless of the low safety, possibly caused by elderly health

(Qiu et al., 2014). Considering this circumstance of labor shortages in
the near future among farmers’ communities in Japan, the Japanese

government is urgently moving toward technology solutions, which
refer to autonomous machinery such as self-driving tractors (Torii,

2000; Li et al., 2009). The machine is designed with a high-technology
combination                                                 of sensors, cameras, and internet 
applications to take over
some primary and hard work, such as steering, harvesting, and sorting
(Mousazadeh, 2013). For instance, the government focuses on
deploying the introduction of self-driving tractors by hoping that such
machines will help farmers deal with the fieldwork and reduce the

tasks at hand.

Generally, both government and the agricultural machinery
industry’s                                        anticipation of the new technology is reducing 
the workload
and production costs while boosting productivity and uniformity. These
benefits eventually strengthen the competitiveness of Japanese


agriculture regardless of the aging population. Moreover, most of the
machines produced by Japanese manufacturers aim at rice cultivation
and hopefully can be exported to countries with the same culture, for
instance, Southeast Asia and China (Yaoming et al., 2005). The market
for autonomous machinery in agricultural applications is expanding
rapidly, creating opportunities for domestic and international

competition. Therefore, this chapter highlights the spectrum of
autonomy to address the current state of development, challenges,
industrial                                      anticipation, and outlook to bring the technologies 
to the
market at a certain level of autonomy to address the acute labor
shortages in agricultural field operations.

23.2 Autonomous Machinery: Japanese Spectrum
and Current State of Development

The autonomous spectrum in Japan is essential for innovation

guidance, as the low range is conclusively a significant barrier to the
development in the country and its product’s strength in the global
market. Slightly different from the USA, the Japanese spectrum refers to
five ascending levels of autonomy from zero to four corresponding to

the percentage of automated control capacity (Fig. 23.1). According to

the guideline for autonomous vehicles mentioned in the METI report of
Japan Ministry of Economy, Trade, and Industry in 2014: Driverless

tractor development is already advanced in the US, where John Deer,
CASE, AGCO, and others have working technology that can send tractors
on preprogrammed routes. In Japan, the development of autonomous
machines                                              is emerging rapidly (Japan Ministry of 
Economy, Trading and
Industry, 2015). The effort to realize the aim is supported in many
ways. If referred to the ascending levels of autonomy (US), the

development of autonomous machines in Japan is between levels (3)
operator-assisted autonomy and (4) supervised autonomy.


Fig. 23.1  The development direction of the autonomous spectrum of
agricultural machinery in Japan

Japanese tech companies ranging from small scales to large firms,
including Mitsubishi, Fujitsu, and Panasonic, are racing into research
development investment to gain the best opportunities and profits in
both the domestic and global markets. India and the Asia-Pacific

countries are regarded as the most excitable and potential places for
sales                                               (The Japan Times, 2018). The autonomous machine 
market is
already being exploited by the vegetable-growing industry. The “agri-
tech” business has featured both Japanese and international media,
with reports of indoor “vertical farms” and automated greenhouses
gaining the most coverage (Goto, 2012; Kozai et al., 2015). The ongoing
process emphasizes robotic automation using continuously updated IT


systems and sensors to manipulate environmental factors, evidently
enhancing work efficiencies and crop yield and product quality. For
example, in all-robot farms, all operations are performed by robots

from replanting young seedlings to the end of harvesting crops.

23.3 Solution Developments

Although Kubota has started selling the country’s first autonomous
tractors                                              on a trial basis, the machines still need to 
be monitored as

Level 3 of the autonomy. Kubota assumes that farmers will operate two
tractors                                                 at a time, one with a driver and the other 
unmanned. In
addition, the monitoring is aligned with the developed safety guidelines
available that only allow the usage of autonomous machinery with on-
site human monitoring (Kubota, 2017). The Ministry of Agriculture,

Forestry and Fisheries (MAFF) has set objectives for achieving the

commercialization of autonomous driving systems on farming lands
and                                         unmanned remote monitoring systems. However, to put 
these
methods into practical use, many hurdles remain. Therefore, the next
step is to use artificial intelligence (AI) to transform the agricultural
robot into a smart robot through a deep learning process guided by
farmers with support from technical experts (Yanmar, 2017). In
addition, the challenges remaining for the most difficult technique are

making the tractor turn without colliding and reducing the time for the
exact time. Additionally, safety guidelines also need to be prepared for
remote monitoring. It is difficult for the industry to achieve the target
set by the government, and at the same time, it is making significant
progress in putting the machine into practical use and remote

monitoring. The work or any instruction for autonomous machines first
needs to be preprogrammed. The machinery, which depends on GPS
and other wireless technologies, is available to locate its position. It has
been equipped with front/rear/left obstruction detection sensors, and
the installation of a safety system, such as sounding an alert, slowing
down, and stopping if an obstruction is detected within a specified
distance (Zhang et al., 2018). The evolution of machines into smart

robots is robust due to AI technology that utilizes machine intelligence


and human-thinking ability to process various data to make
predictions, recommendations, and decisions.

23.4 Industrial Anticipation and Outlook

Japanese manufacturers are aiming at fully automated machines that
successfully support labor savings with high productivity. Moreover,
intensive human supervision is not required but is a priority authorized
with remote control. Their business model is continually releasing new
technology for new businesses and keeping up with the trend.

Technology companies are expected to automate many agricultural

tasks according to 1 year of cultivation work in an integration system.
This                                        sophisticated idea is developed with the combination of 
cameras,

GNSS, and AI learning processes. The increasingly complex and
powerful                                         software and hardware allow machines to achieve 
better

interactions and full automation. A wide range of equipment has been
introduced to support their customers doing the work with the best-
trusted quality. In machinery control, the ISOBUS integrated system is
for full control over and helps the machine achieve its task. The

operation program is designed to relieve work stress and provide a
better overview of the work process. In the case of optimization, the
precision                                                of work such as seeds, fertilizers, and 
pesticide applications is
improved to obtain the optimal result most comfortably. Autonomous

operation replicating farmers will be the best target for machines.

23.5 Market Commercialization with Geographic
Application Targets

Market commercialization by the major Japanese manufacturing
companies                                             is steadily adapting GNSS guidance and 
autosteering
systems. However, smart agricultural machinery market size and

forecasting show that the major contributing parts, such as software
support,                                            including complex environmental support, 
production
support, and cultivation support software, must be properly addressed.
Furthermore, marketing support solutions and management support
solutions need to be ensured once the autonomous units are ready for


use by the farmer. Additionally, technology support should cover GNSS
guidance, autosteering, vehicle robot system and precision agriculture
technology. The development phases of market commercialization have
expanded from 2010 when it was only autosteering and GPS guidance.
Autonomous applications need to be more reliable under human
supervision. Therefore, market commercialization targets more
unmanned systems under supervised support with the help of artificial
intelligence (Fig. 23.2).


Fig. 23.2  Industrial anticipation and outlook for commercialization of
autonomous solution

Kubota, the leading machinery manufacturer, aims to provide an
autonomous                                              tractor model for small tractors. The 
existing autonomous
tractor developed between 60 and 100 hp., and these tractors are
aimed at lowland cultivation, such as rice plantations, while upland and
dry-field farming is supported by the M7 series. The M7 series tractor is
a flagship model with a powerful engine of between 130 and 170
horsepower (Kubota, 2017). This is due to the expansion of large-scale
farmers and farming operations. Kubota aims to expand the large-scale
dry-field agricultural equipment business in Europe and North

America. The new M7 models also won the Good Design Award 2016
and                                              are excellently equipped with an autosteering 
function lining up
with the Farm Pilot series supported by GPS.

23.6 Conclusions

A significant shortage of the agricultural labor force is threatening

Japanese sustainable development in agriculture and food production.
This                                        circumstance highly motivates mechanization 
transformation,
which creates a large market opportunity for autonomous machinery
companies. To meet market demands, Japanese firms aim to develop

integrated autonomous systems for crop plantation and prediction that
will bring the best value to users as well as financial and technical
support for ensuring long-term productivity. In addition, the Japanese
government’s full support for autonomous machinery development in
agriculture applications is also expected to meet new safety standards
for supervised autonomy. Leading firms by Kubota Corp are close to
half of the current market value running for establishing completely
autonomous tractors. Assisting the development, the spectrum of

autonomous machines consisting of five ascending levels acts as a

guideline for both government and companies to further develop new
products and establish a flexible legal system. In addition, industrial
sectors have solutions for the market, which can be maximized for
increasing machine productivity, user benefits, and conformation.


References

Goedde, L., Fischer, J., Denis, N., Tanaka, M., & Yamada, Y. (2016). Empowering
Japanese agriculture for global impact. McKinsey Japan. Retrieved from https://
www.mckinsey.com/~/media/mckinsey/global%20themes/asia%20pacific/
strengthening%20japanese%20agriculture%20to%20maximize%20
global%20reach/empowering-japanese-agriculture-report.ashx

Goto, E. (2012). Plant production in a closed plant factory with artificial
lighting. In VII international symposium on light in horticultural systems 956 (pp.
37–49).

Japan Ministry of Economy, Trading and Industry. (2015). Summary of Japan’s
robot strategy. Retrieved from http://www.meti.go.jp/english/press/2015/
pdf/0123_01c.pdf

Japan Today. (2016). Japan’s ‘agri-tech’ farming revolution. Retrieved from
https://japantoday.com/category/tech/japans-agri-tech-farming-revolution

Jö hr, H. (2012). Where are the future farmers to grow our food? International
Food and Agribusiness Management Review, 15(Special Issue A), 9–11.

Kozai, T., Niu, G., Takagaki, M., & (Eds.). (2015). Plant factory: An indoor vertical
farming system for efficient quality food production. Academic Press.

Kubota. (2017). Kubota. Available at: http://www.kubota-global.net/news/
2017/20170125.html

Li, M., Imou, K., Wakabayashi, K., & Yokoyama, S. (2009). Review of research on
agricultural vehicle autonomous guidance. International Journal of Agricultural
and Biological Engineering, 2(3), 1–16.

Mousazadeh, H. (2013). A technical review on navigation systems of
agricultural autonomous off-road vehicles. Journal of Terramechanics, 50(3),
211–232.

[Crossref]

Qiu, Z., Chen, B., & Takemoto, K. (2014). Conservation of terraced paddy fields
engaged with multiple stakeholders: The case of the Noto GIAHS site in Japan.
Paddy and Water Environment, 12(2), 275–283.

[Crossref]


The Japan Times. (2018). Japan may be in hot pursuit of robotics, but on the farm
it’s still all about human hands. Retrieved from https://www.japantimes.co.jp/
news/2018/12/25/business/japan-may-hot-pursuit-robotics-farm-still-
human-hands/

Torii, T. (2000). Research in autonomous agriculture vehicles in Japan.

Computers and Electronics in Agriculture, 25(1–2), 133–153.
[Crossref]

Yanmar. (2017). Will the robot be our Savior? The future of agriculture changed by
technology. Available at: https://www.yanmar.com/en_th/about/ymedia/
product/agri_robot.html

Yaoming, L., Lizhang, X., Zhongping, X., & Lingli, D. (2005). Research advances
of rice planting mechanization in Japan. Transactions of The Chinese Society of
Agricultural Engineering, 11, 041.

Zhang, Y., Gao, P., & Ahamed, T. (2018). Development of a rescue system for
agricultural machinery operators using machine vision. Biosystems Engineering,
169, 149–164.

[Crossref]

